The market seems to be a new economy
dynamics, right? At least for AI.
>> We are still in the earlier part of the
investment cycle. Call it over a quarter
of the economic growth is coming from
this AI super cycle.
>> At this point, I think we're getting
into bubble territory.
>> Whenever demand is very strong and has
been for a number of years, one has to
always have an eye towards the next
downturn.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, gold topping 4K. The
precious metal breaking through 4,000
for the first time ever as the Fed is
focused on jobs growth and looking
through financial excess. Nvidia is
investing in a major funding round for
Elon Musk's startup xAI. Nvidia is
investing in another customer.
>> time where there's a lot of concern
about circular financing, the idea that
all of the big tech players are
investing in one another. And it raises
this real key question. There is this
feeling that you need to build out your
AI capabilities at any cost. So, what is
that cost? And how intertwined are some
of these big companies with one another
and with costs that are unidentifiable?
Echoes of vendor financing that took
place in the late 1990s. Not a perfect
parallel to that era, but ultimately
some questions. And I think those
questions increasing over the past few
weeks. Do some of these companies become
systemically important if they all are
intertwined with one another? And if the
supplier of goods is financing the
purchasing of those goods, all of a
sudden you start to wonder how real is
the demand. One thing that was really
struck me in a whole host of
conversations yesterday was how many
people have expensive leases for
long-term data center usage that isn't
really being quantified in a real way.
It just raises the question about where
valuations are.
>> Nvidia this morning higher by about 0.6%
another move. Check out gold. Gold up
for a fourth consecutive session. We are
through 4K. We're looking at fresh
all-time highs.
>> And according to Goldman Sachs, by
December of next year, we could be very
close to $5,000 when it comes to gold.
The more uncertain things are in
Washington, the more certain people are
about putting their money in one place
and that has been gold. And right now,
the uncertainty continues down in
Washington, D.C. We are in the eighth
day of a government shutdown. No end in
sight. And this time next week,
potentially, our service men and women
might not get paid. So, when things are
so uncertain, you don't like the US
dollars, you're not too sure about US
Treasuries, what do you do? You buy the
precious metal.
>> Not exclusively this time though in this
week a dollar-centric move. Look
elsewhere. Japan, look to France, look
to the euro, look to the yen. The
dollar's actually at a two-month high at
the moment. It's the weakness elsewhere
that's starting to fuel this extra leg
in gold.
>> The fact that there is no an
alternative. You might hate the dollar
because of the government shutdown and a
question of whether the Fed's going to
ease at a time that's where there is
elevated inflation. Are you going to go
to France? Are you going to go to Japan
with the idea of stimulating the economy
at a time of inflation? It is a global
problem. I was struck by the fact that
gold rising in tandem with stocks might
not be an anomaly. There are echoes of
what happened in the 1970s where there
is a question of how we're pricing
things and whether inflation is coming
in other places.
>> Gold this morning through 4,000. Equity
futures doing okay, bouncing back by
0.1%. Coming up this hour, Julian
Emanuel of Evercore on the prospect of a
tech bubble. Ian Lyngen of Capital
Markets ahead of the latest Fed minutes
and Rob Sockin of Citi on why the labor
market may be at a turning point. We
begin this hour with stocks rising and
gold at all-time highs. Julian Emanuel
of Evercore writing the increased
probability of a bubble scenario gives
the S&P 500 a 30% chance to rise to 9K
by year-end 2026. Julian joins us now
for more. Julian, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you, sir. Let's put
some meat on those bones. 30% chance of
9K next year on the S&P. So, if if you
think about it, actually going back to
Y2K, right? Where all this sort of talk
of bubbles
originated over the course of this last
25 years, you have had numerous bubbles.
Housing, global bond markets,
Chinese equities in 2015,
meme stocks, this, that, and the other.
And frankly, when you add all that up,
first of all, academia would tell you
that those many bubbles in 25 years is
absolutely impossible. But when you
think about it, it it really does speak
to the fact that, number one, each
bubble was larger than the last. And
from our point of view, when you think
about Y2K at 28 times earnings peak,
it's very reasonable to think about 30
times a $300 number getting you to 9,000
in the S&P 500.
But it's bigger, more, you know, grander
every time. Well, let's speak to this
moment. There are whispers of vendor
financing. We see invest in Nvidia
investing in some of their companies and
some in some of their customers. And we
know that money's going to come back to
that company. What's different about
this moment? It seems to be the strength
of the balance sheets compared to where
we were in the late '90s and the absence
of leverage on those balance sheets of
some of the major tech players. Does
that give this more legs? Is that how
you think about things?
>> Well,
again, when you think about the late
'90s, you were having companies that
didn't have earnings, that had barely
had revenues, that were doing all all
the spending on CapEx. You don't have it
this time. Most of the companies, to
your point, have incredibly strong
balance sheets.
But when you think about what we've
heard in the last couple weeks,
the the memory for us is this Japanese
phrase keiretsu,
cross-shareholdings. You saw it in the
1980s and the early 1990s, which
inflated valuations into the Japanese
equity market bubble.
And look, if you're not concerned about
the potential knock-on effects of all
this kind of cross-shareholder
relationships,
you're probably not paying sufficient
attention. So, is this bullish or
bearish? You're talking 9,000, which
sounds great. Let's get in. And then
you're talking about a bubble that's
bigger than anything we've ever seen
before. So, so
and you have to think about it in terms
of cycles, okay?
What we have been very plain about in
getting ourselves around the idea that
you invest in a higher valuation
environment is this notion that what
ends structural bull markets. And to be
very clear, what we had in February to
April was a cyclical bear market in a
structural bull market. What ends
structural bull markets is a Fed that's
going to be hostile. If anything, the
Fed is going to be perhaps too friendly
to the point about stoking inflation.
Higher yields on the long end. Amazing
how quiescent the 10-year yield has
been.
And and then, you know, recession. That
doesn't seem to be in the cards. But the
last thing, the fact that every one of
these capital markets cycles has ended
with an incredibly robust corporate
action pipeline and we're just starting
to see that form, tells you that there's
further to run. And as difficult as it
is, and it is difficult to invest in
these valuations,
we think that you need to stay invested.
You need to stay invested in the big
tech players. Does it say anything about
the rest of the market or is that just a
completely different story in terms of
the economic drivers, the areas outside
of AI? Well, look, and again, when you
think about the demographics
and know that over the course of the
coming decades, demographics are going
to be a headwind and they already are in
places like China.
That's part of why AI has had the impact
that it's had. And this year, we're
seeing other companies, the the the
adopters and the adapters really start
to talk about how they're
essentially driving revenue. We always
knew the cost-saving story,
but that is very, very vital. And for
us, when you look at the internals of
the market, what's different between now
and the late 1990s is that day-to-day,
the advancers are beating the decliners.
The the the troops, the the people in
the field, the stocks that nobody talks
about are going up day in and day out.
Whereas in the late '90s, it was all
tech all the time. Seeing billions of
dollars being put towards AI, but we're
not seeing billions of dollars being put
towards electricity demand. What happens
if the grid can't handle all of this?
>> Well, that that's absolutely a concern.
Well, do you reach 9,000 next year if
you can't even develop data centers? I
[Music]
That's that's a good question. And from
our point of view, again, it's less
about the synchronization
of the build-out
than the fact that that there is
sufficient liquidity
to, you know, really expect the
build-out to occur over over a time. And
again, I go back to this idea. And
frankly, we're seeing it this week was
different. Not only did you have the
largest LBO in history, but I took taxi
cab rides and and they started talking
about the stock market and they started
talking about AI. And that's different,
but that's part of every cycle. And that
is how you get to valuations that go
from rational exuberance, where we are
now,
to something more extreme.
>> throwing shade at all, but I think the
cab driver over the past five years has
been more dependable than the
strategists on Wall Street in some ways.
Is that fair?
We got cautious like everyone else in
March. We got We got bullish in April,
to be clear, but
>> But I don't know if they've been the
contrary indicator in quite the same way
that they were in the 1920s, 1930s.
>> Well, what's fascinating again as you go
back to February through April and the
public got this right. Literally for the
first time in the cycle, the public was
the buyer the whole way down and the
reason that the market has been so
unrelenting on the upside is because
professionals have found themselves
under invested.
>> a shoeshine boy in the '20s. Remember
that stuff? The story's really
different. The performance chase going
into the year end is coming from Wall
Street.
Wouldn't you agree? So I'm talking to
clients that missed out on the move in
April in the last 6 months. I would, but
I would also say this is that the
dynamics of trading, they used to call
it day trading in the 1990s.
Now you're looking at high-frequency
trading, but the zero days to expiration
options
the the gamma effect that causes hedgers
to have to hedge upside intraday is
really unlike anything I've seen.
Julian, you're going to stick with us.
Some place to say. It's not aimed at
you, of course. It's aimed at other
people out there. Julian Emanuel of
Evercore sticking with us. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Vanya Quinn. Hey, Vanya. Hey,
John. Good morning.
President Trump is threatening to block
back pay for some federal workers once
the government reopens saying some quote
don't deserve to be taken care of. The
White House budget office has drafted a
memo arguing the 2019 law guaranteeing
back pay is flawed and doesn't require
automatic payments. Democrats call that
interpretation an outrage and a clear
violation of the law.
New developments this morning involving
Elon Musk's push into artificial
intelligence. Musk's XAI is set to be
raising $20
including $2 from Nvidia to finance AI
chips for its Colossus 2 project.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
deal split between equity and debt
allows XAI to rent Nvidia processors for
5 years.
Cristiano Ronaldo has become football's
first billionaire. According to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index Ronaldo's
net worth climbs to $1.4 billion.
Ronaldo's wealth was boosted by a
contract extension with Saudi Arabian
team Al Nassr and endorsement deals with
brands like Nike and Armani. And that is
your Bloomberg brief, John. Hey, Vanya.
Thank you. Fantastic write-up from the
team about what makes this so original
that it's come from on-field earnings,
that it's not all about endorsements and
a lot of it's come at the latter end of
his career being in Saudi Arabia. This
sends a message for me. This is more
about the riches of Saudi Arabia and the
lack of income tax than it is about
anything else.
And it raises a question about how other
football clubs or soccer clubs compete
with the fact that they have a checkbook
that seems to be endless. Equity
futures, let's get back to the market.
Equity futures on the S&P unless you're
running a Saudi football club
>> In which case?
>> would like someone around their 40s who
can't play football anymore
might be available. Up next on the
program, winners and losers in AI.
When you look at big tech like tech that
happens like this, there are a lot of
losers, a lot of winners. In total it's
productive. There will be some real big
companies with real big success. It will
work in spite of the fact that not
everyone who invested in it is going to
have a great investment return. That
conversation up next with Bloomberg's
Matt Bloxsom live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City, here's a sneak
peek of the week ahead. It starts this
afternoon 1:00 p.m. Eastern time,
10-year bond auction, $39 billion of
debt coming to market. After that an
hour later, some Federal Reserve
minutes. Look out for that. And then
tomorrow, earnings from Delta kicking
off earning season. Key one to watch
because that jobless claims number,
that's also due tomorrow, probably won't
be coming. Equity futures on the S&P 500
shaping up as follows. We are positive
by 1/10 of 1% on the S&P, on the Nasdaq
up by 0.15, on the Russell up by 0.3.
Under surveillance this morning, winners
and losers in AI.
When you look at big tech like tech that
happens like this and you can look at
cars, you can look at television, you
can look at internet. Big money's going
to spend. There are a lot of losers, a
lot of winners. In total it's
productive. There will be some real big
companies with real big success. It will
work in spite of the fact that not
everyone who invested in it is going to
have a great investment return. So
here's the latest deal this morning.
Another massive AI spending deal maybe
in the works this time involving Elon
Musk's XAI and Nvidia. Matt Bloxsom of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Matt, good morning. Just briefly
explain the latest agreement and how
Nvidia fits in with all of this.
Yeah, so this is a $20
fund raised by XAI to essentially
roll out the next big data center which
is called Colossus 2.
And as part of that Nvidia looks like it
could take about a $2 billion
equity
investment into that $20 and that $20 is
split between debt and equity I think
predominantly debt our sources tell us.
And then it will be essentially a
special purpose vehicle. So rather the
money going straight to XAI, there'll be
a special purpose vehicle that buys the
Nvidia chips and then rents them over a
5-year period to XAI and also it'll put
them into that data center and they'll
be used I guess for a mixture of uses
across
both
X and AI side of that venture too and
possibly even you know for use in
Tesla capabilities too. So yeah, lots of
uses for that. Whether there's actually
a kind of an actual demand for that from
from kind of consumers and businesses is
yet to be seen. Yeah, to me this this
feels like one of the more
straightforward of these kind of
slightly quirky deals we've been seeing
in the last week or two. But naturally
there is a bit of circularity there to
this and you know essentially this money
will be finding its way back into Nvidia
through the purchase of their chips.
Matt, does this smell like the vendor
financing of the late '90s? Is this any
different?
Yeah, um
maybe the structures are a little bit
different, but it does have a very
familiar ring to it and I think you know
clearly you know we're we're all using
AI to some degree in our daily lives and
our business lives, but you know I think
the actual revenue that's being
generated from this market today is
incredibly small and all of this money
is going into all of these businesses on
the hope and expectation that
that the revenue coming in is going to
multiply a huge amounts and you know I
think if you look at the consumer market
that means that there needs probably to
be
a massive transformation in the
advertising market. Also all of that
digital market money goes to Google
and metal predominantly Google and metal
today and that companies like Open AI
going to have to get a big big share of
that and we don't actually see that
commercial model yet. And also we're
going to have to see enterprises of all
sizes and shapes spending huge amounts
of recurring revenue with perhaps slices
of Oracle and Microsoft
on AI-based technology and yeah we're
not seeing that yet either. So yeah, all
of this money is going into these
businesses on on a mid to long-term
promise. Matt Bloxsom of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Matt, thank you, sir.
Appreciate it. This is snarky, forgive
me, but why do you buy banks anymore?
Just invest in your customers.
You get the stock move, too. Well, I
think this is a great point and for
Nvidia that's what they're doing and it
works. My question is who's potentially
more at risk, right? Nvidia from a
company that might not be able to keep
paying given the fact that they're
financing all of these companies to buy
their goods or the companies that are
entering into very expensive agreements
with Nvidia because there seems to be no
cost too high to pay to get access to
the AI dream. And that I think is
something to watch those recurring
revenues that are going to eat into
margins and we saw that a bit with
Oracle. Julian,
good to have you with us still.
For me I try to make this really really
simple.
They're being rewarded for this kind of
behavior, for this kind of action. Is
there any reason to believe they're
going to be someone's going to stop
rewarding them anytime soon?
Look,
there is always and I go back to earlier
this year. Remember when when Deep Seek
came out, we were all absolutely
flabbergasted, the end of the AI story,
the CapEx build was going to stop. Well,
it didn't. It accelerated. Now, will
there come a time the same way there
came a time when you had, you know, the
rollback in the internet story in in the
early 2000s? There will. No question
about it. But I go back to actually what
the technology is and and we're still
trying to figure out and understand what
exactly is. I know from our experience
at Evercore ISI is that number one, I'm
using AI more than I ever thought I
would
not just 2 years ago when we launched
coverage on it, but 6 months ago and I
will tell you in the last two or three
months alone the quality of the AI, the
ability for us to train our in-house AI
has exploded and and
I understand the efficiencies. Look, it
is again going back to the late '90s,
there is always a sort of, you know,
an imagination that's expected and there
is absolutely going to be pockets of
overinvestment, significant
overinvestment
Um, which is why from from our point of
view, we want to stay with the names
that have led the last couple years and
the names with the fortress balance
sheets that will be able to take the
inevitable volatility from the financing
how this all plays out. So, two things
can be true at the same time and we've
seen this through history with a lot of
bubbles, which is the technology can be
very worthy and transformative and
valuations can be way too high and
people throw stupid money after stupid
money. And I do wonder, you talk about
fortress balance sheets, how different
the past couple of months have been with
the way that some of this is being
financed with some of the leasing
contracts that have been entered into.
How susceptible is the rally that we're
seeing in AI stocks to earnings reports
that don't show the same kind of
expanding margins that we've become used
to? Well, when you think about the
earning season that that's coming up,
the bar is incredibly high now. A, given
the fact that the last couple of
quarters have been good.
B, that we overshot
the the view on the downside of the
economy
in March and April. But to your point,
Lisa, is that, you know, you've seen
record debt issuance in the month of
September
and a lot of it was to pay for AI CapEx
and the market rightly is sitting back
and pausing and reevaluating what the
equity of some of those companies is
actually worth.
>> You know, one thing that has been a huge
supporter of this is that it has been
done with cash.
Have we moved to the point where more of
it's being done with debt? I'm looking
at say the investment grade bond market
where you now have more tech related
bond sales in in that space than even
banks.
You have and and for us, and you know we
think about risk as much as we think
about reward, what's incredible about
all of this is that credit default swap
protection on investment grade bonds is
still near the lows. So, so frankly,
this is an environment where actually if
if you think about it as a portfolio
manager, you can actually pay for some
insurance that the market mood changes
whether it's in the equity markets
because the VIX is so low or the credit
default markets because IG protection is
so cheap and still have your baseline
investment, which frankly in an
environment like this is likely to
continue to outperform the indices.
Julian, what would the market reaction
be though if one of these companies
failed given how entangled they are?
What's that domino effect actually look
like?
Uh,
because of the fortress balance sheets
of many of these companies,
the mag seven obviously really are the
ones that most come to mind,
it's likely not going to have that type
of contagion effect, but what it will do
is what happens from time to time. At 26
times earnings on the S&P 500, it
doesn't really matter,
uh, you know, how the bad news arrives.
If it arrives, you're going to have a
setback.
>> At some point though, the ideas are good
enough that they don't require vendor
financing, surely. Why would they need
the investment from companies like
Nvidia if these ideas were actually
going to generate the income soon and
quickly that people believe it will? Uh,
it's got it's a time
sort of optionality to it. Again, when
when we launched two years ago on this,
we had adoption curves that said
corporate America would get to 25%
adoption
by the end of 2025. We're on track for
that, but remember, that's only 25% and
given the build out and given the CapEx,
you know, you need to see continued
acceleration. We think you got it.
>> Got 30 seconds. Just before you go,
people might believe your price target
for next year is 9K. What is it on the
S&P? 7750.
>> Okay. It's bullish enough.
Julian, thank you, sir. Julian Emanuel
of Evercore, 7750. Just be very clear in
case you thought that 9K was the base
case for Julian. Might become the base
case, who knows, but there's a 30%
chance from the team at Evercore that we
achieve 9,000 points on the S&P 500 by
year end next year. Unreal. Coming up,
Ian Lincoln of looking ahead to Fed
minutes from a divided Federal Reserve.
Plus, you Hyra has your morning movers.
Confluent jumping on reports for another
deal in the data space. That stock is up
in the premarket by close to 20%
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Snap the seven-day winning run on the
S&P 500 in yesterday's session. Bouncing
back so far this morning. Equity futures
shaping up as follows. Firmer by around
about a tenth of 1% on the Nasdaq up by
two tenths. Yesterday, the Nasdaq held
back reporting around Oracle about the
amount of their margins that are coming
through from certain activities. We'll
get into that story a little bit later
this morning. We'll attend to the bond
market and focus on the front end and
the long end as well. The two year, the
last time the Fed met was at 350. Since
then, we've been grinding higher, 35616
so far this morning. Looking out for the
Fed minutes later on this afternoon. On
tens, we get some government debt a
little bit later. 10-year bonds, 39
billion dollars worth tomorrow. We get a
30-year issue. So, that's going to be
the main event later on this afternoon.
Just before we get those Fed minutes.
Tens this morning get 41036.
And just to finish on gold, switch up
the board. Let's get to gold. Four-day
winning streak on the year so far, up by
54% and earlier on this morning through
4K for the first time ever on the
session, up by 1.4%. That's some of the
cross asset price action so far this
morning. Let's get you some single
names, the morning movers. With more,
here's you Hyra. Hey, Hyra. Hi, John. We
start on some possible deal news.
Confluent shares are soaring nearly 20%
in the premarket as Reuters reports that
it is exploring a sale after drawing
takeover interest and marks the latest
data infrastructure company that's
capturing investor attention due to its
role in powering AI. Meanwhile, moving
on to Lucid, those shares are lower
after falling nearly 10% yesterday, down
another 3.4% today after third quarter
sales and production targets missed
estimates. It comes after both Rivian
and Tesla beat expectations as buyers
rushed to grab those EV tax credits
before they expired. Lucid not grabbing
the same tailwind. And we end on the
latest parlor game on Wall Street. Guess
which company the US government will
back next and that is why you're seeing
US rare earths rising 5.4% on a five
after a five-day winning streak.
Meanwhile, critical metals soaring 15%
despite the White House saying yesterday
that it was not considering a stake in
this company. So, surprising to see it
surging today. John. Hyra, thank you.
Thank you very much. We talked about
this, didn't we, yesterday?
This is going to be the game now. Who's
next?
>> doesn't believe it. They're looking at
all the companies that the US government
already took stakes in and they're
lining up, okay, what other critical
minerals is this government after and
maybe we should go invest in those
companies because likely CEO Donald
Trump or,
you know, the executive entrepreneur
Donald Trump is going to go take a
stake.
>> it's CIO Donald Trump now. The asset
management wing of the White House.
That's the latest in the premarket on
our radar this morning. President Donald
Trump threatening to block back pay for
some federal workers when the government
reopens saying some people don't deserve
it. Democrats calling the move a clear
violation of the law. Elsewhere,
outgoing French Prime Minister Le Cornu
is optimistic he can broker a deal to
form a new government by tonight's
deadline set by President Macron to
break the political deadlock. And
finally, Elon Musk's xAI is said to be
raising up to 20 billion in new funding
with Nvidia as a key backer investing as
much as two billion dollars. Funds will
be used to buy Nvidia's processors for
xAI's Colossus 2 data center. There's so
many questions around this in terms of
just what this means with vendor
financing as you put it or circular
types of financing structures.
Interesting to see a greater portion of
this coming from the debt markets also,
not just equity. There are all sorts of
questions about the cost of speed, speed
to market, speed to adoption and whether
the costs are adequately reflecting the
potential risk and the potential
opportunity. That's why I think Oracle's
earnings yesterday or the sort of
warning report that was released by some
media reports
signal that maybe these contracts are
pretty expensive and right now, some of
these big tech companies aren't able to
overwhelm that with profits, which I
think is really going to be key to watch
in earnings reports. And when you hear
from Nvidia's CIO, which we heard from
our CFO last month, they were talking
about the fact that they just want to be
an accelerate when it comes to this. So,
if they're willing to put their money
into these companies and we should talk
about the other end of this. xAI and Ed
Ludlow has done some great reporting on
this, desperately needs it. Elon Musk is
burning through one billion dollars a
month when it comes to that company. So,
it comes at a time where they are
desperately needing this cash if they
want to be able to keep up with their
peers.
>> up with that later this morning on his
latest reporting around xAI. Lisa
mentioned Oracle. It came from the
information, internal documents showing
the fast-growing cloud business has had
to raise a thin gross profit margins in
the past year or so lower than what many
equity analysts have estimated. That
really helped snap that winning streak
on the S&P 500 and brought back down the
Nvidia story, the Oracle story and the
broader story around the Nasdaq 100.
We're bouncing back this morning, so
back on trend, back to normal. Let's
turn to the Federal Reserve. Traders
looking ahead to the FOMC minutes due
out at 2:00 p.m. Eastern time. Ian
Lincoln of writing 25 basis point
cuts in October and December already a
foregone conclusion as long as there
isn't a more dramatic downturn in risk
assets. Ian joins us now for more. Ian,
good morning, sir. It's good to see you.
Happy to be here. When the Federal
Reserve is in risk management mode, if
they don't have the data, are Are
cutting or are they holding?
I think that they're going to continue
to cut simply because the data shift
that we saw over the course of the
summer including the benchmark revisions
on the jobs front suggests that we are
cooling as an economy and getting back
to normal policy rates seems to make
sense in that with that backdrop. I just
wonder what you think of this dissonance
between a labor market that seems to be
cooling and GDP that seems to be going
strong.
Well, as you've been discussing the AI
investment capex everything associated
with that has not only been driving
business spending so keeping up the real
the momentum of the real economy economy
but we are all we are also seeing upside
in equities and that is fueling
consumption because we know the top 10%
account for 50% of consumption in the US
and I think that that has been a key
driver and when I make the observation
about a potential downturn in risk
assets if we are going to slip into a
recession at some point it's probably
going to come from a repricing of risk
assets but that certainly is not on no
one's radar at this point. I guess that
I'm trying to understand whether it
makes sense for the Fed to cut rates to
protect jobs given the fact that there
is clearly a sluggishness to the labor
market. You're seeing peripheral
spending data showing a slowdown in
September as well. I was looking at
Citigroup data this morning. I just
wonder if it makes sense to do that if
you potentially pose the risk of
turbocharging what some people are
saying is bullishness types of behavior
in other sectors AI being one of them.
Mhm.
Well, I think that that's what the Fed
needs to decide over the course of the
rest of the year whether they're going
to get back to 3% or 3.5 depending on
what estimates you look at or is there a
risk that there's still more to be seen
on the tariff side even setting aside
the bubble issue. I still think that
there's tariff pass through to inflation
that has yet to be realized and so we
could see some sticky CPI prints when we
finally get them and that's the the big
unknown is when does the government
start publishing data again. So what are
you tracking right now given the fact
that we're not really getting anything
official from a lot of the sources? So I
think that we do have ADP and we have
ISM and we have some of the private data
but at the end of the day we're really
just looking at the day count of the
shutdown because the longer it goes the
more uncertainty there'll be and when
the Fed meets later this month the one
piece of information that they will
really have is whether or not the
government has been reopened or if we're
going to push that record long 34-day
shutdown window. Do you guys have a base
case of how long you think the
government shutdown will last?
I think that it will get through the end
of next week at at the earliest before
we start to see any movement because at
that point people will stop getting
paychecks. I assume that there'll be
more rhetoric and more headlines out of
Washington but it's also a question of
how the Democrats are going to be
polling as a result of this going into
what will be the run-up to the midterm
and the politics around that and that's
always difficult to estimate. So the Fed
will be walking in potentially with that
base case with a jobs report but not
inflation data. How concerning is that
when like Neil Kashkari are sounding
alarms on too fast of interest rate cuts
might be a problem and there's
stagflationary fears?
I do think that if they happen to have
the jobs data in hand that that will be
part of the story that they can justify
cutting for because a weaker job market
is disinflationary on a forward basis
and that is again information. I do
think it would be ideal if they had a
full set of information but at the end
of the day they're going to uh
adjust to the reality as it comes in.
And since the Fed last met mid-September
two-year bond yields are slightly
higher, 10-year bond yields are higher,
the whole curve has shifted higher. What
do you think that speaks to?
I think we're just in a range
consolidation mode for the market. I
think that we've we now know the
direction of travel of rates. We have
some uncertainty associated with the
shutdown and what that means more than
likely for the beginning of next year as
opposed to the balance of this year and
we don't have enough convincing evidence
to get back to 3.95% year yields but
also not to get back to 4.50%. We're
just in a range as we see how things
play out.
>> Do you think we'll say that the rate
story has stabilized because
subsequently after the Fed meeting we
found out this Fed is far more divided
than was actually revealed in that news
conference with Chairman Powell. That
maybe for a lot of people they thought
this was the start of a bigger rate
cutting cycle something down towards
three and quickly and what I've heard
subsequently since is a bunch of Fed
speakers with very different views about
the future. Anne Marie mentioned Neil
Kashkari. There are some individuals
that aren't ready to go again. Never
mind go another hundred. Mhm. Isn't that
part of this story as well? How big a
feature is that?
Well, I think that what the futures
market is telling us is we're
comfortable with a glide path back to 3%
sometime in the middle of next year but
as you point out there are competing
voices on the committee and there do
tend to be committing competing voices
when we're at an inflection point and we
were at an inflection point. I think
that Powell's comments in particular
were an effort to ensure that there was
as much flexibility as possible and he
didn't want to pre-commit to an October
or a December move. So I think it's more
of a business as usual than it is
something particularly frightening. This
is sort of a perverse question but it
looks like right now in polymarkets
there's only a 25% chance that the
shutdown ends before October 15th. You
said that this is the one piece of data
that the Fed is going to have at its new
which is how long the shutdown's going
on. Is that bond positive?
At the end of the day I think it is
because it's more uncertainty and we've
spent a lot of the
last four five months with a
trade
trade war related uncertainty as well as
now shutdown related uncertainty and
that has led to a stalling out on the
labor front and until we have more
clarity I think people are going to be a
lot more reluctant to hire more
reluctant to spend and I think it's
going to
eventually be bond positive. And it's
going to say as always and thinking that
if they mark capital markets as Stewart
said over the weekend of a city no news
no news has been good news for the
equity market. It turns out no news is
good news for the bond market too. Yeah,
I mean honestly as long as this goes on
you can make an argument how reliable is
the government to actually finance its
debt. I mean you could get into that
question too but if the slowdown
continues then people can just put a bit
in basic economics man it's head
spinning stuff.
>> libertarians are happy with the idea
that the government shutdown. You know
there's a part of the part of society
that are happy with that. They're
unhappy when the planes get delayed
>> Exactly.
>> get busy and then their views on all of
that start to turn. And we had that
yesterday an advisory that air traffic
control facilities in Philadelphia, Las
Vegas, Nashville, Chicago, Houston,
Boston were all short staffed. It is
starting to impact everyday people and
that was a pressure point in previous
shutdowns with President Donald Trump in
2019 and it could be a pressure point
again this time. I'm really sorry. I
have not met one person who said to me
I'm so pleased the government shut down
and I think that this just reinforces
that fact.
>> Spend some time with Republicans they'll
tell you exactly that. Or Twitter. Oh,
absolutely yes. People want a small
government. Well, small government's
different than a totally dysfunctional
>> Sure. Understand that. But that's what
this kind of speaks to. Some people are
just okay with that. Move on with life.
The world's still turning. Government
shut down.
>> As long as you can move on with life.
The sun still rises.
When the airport when you face delays
ideology goes out the window. Let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Vani Quinn. Hey Vani. Hey
John. Thank you. Teams from the United
States, Qatar and Israel are gathering
in Egypt for final negotiations to end
the war in Gaza. The US team includes US
special envoy Steve Witkoff and
President Donald Trump's son-in-law
Jared Kushner. They'll be joined by an
Israeli delegation led by Ron Dermer as
well as the Prime Minister of Qatar.
India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi
says he sent a warm birthday message to
Vladimir Putin praising the Russian
leader's commitment to deepening ties.
It comes just hours before UK Prime
Minister Keir Starmer's arrival in
Mumbai providing an awkward start to a
visit meant to focus on trade.
And gold topped $4,000 an ounce for the
first time. Concerns over the US
economy, government shutdown and fiscal
stability adding to the rally. The
precious metal has jumped more than 50%
this year and is on pace for its best
annual performance since the 1970s. That
is your Bloomberg brief, John. Vani,
thank you. Thanks for the update to news
wheels. No Yankees update to scan on
this morning.
Well, I am the update. I'm wearing
pinstripes. We won. You've got a Yankees
jersey under the blazer. Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Nice. All right. Okay.
When's the next game?
>> I got tagged in the back. All right.
Okay. When's the next game? Tonight. So
I might not be here tomorrow. All right.
You're taking tomorrow off? Maybe. Does
management know that? They do now. Okay.
Up next on the program a slowing labor
market.
Consumers continue to to paint a picture
of an ongoing slowing in in in the labor
markets. Consumers tell you things are
getting worse. I think it pays to
believe them. That conversation up next
with Rob Socken of Citi. Live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. Yesterday snapping
seven-day winning run on the S&P 500
this morning bouncing right back up by
0.15% on the S&P and the Nasdaq up by
0.2%. Under the Savannah's this morning
a slowing labor market.
You still have to contend with this
ongoing slowdown in the labor market.
Consumers continue to to paint a picture
of an ongoing slowing in in in the labor
markets. Consumers tell you things are
getting worse. I think it pays to
believe them. It's going to be
increasingly obvious that the
unemployment situation is getting worse
and the Fed will have no choice but to
continue to recalibrate policy. So,
here's the latest this morning.
Consumers becoming increasingly
concerned about the labor market. A new
Fed survey finding 41% of respondents
expect the unemployment rate to rise.
Rob Sockin of Citi writes in the US
labor market is challenging to read.
Still, the broad universe of labor data
does suggest that this is a much more
vulnerable labor backdrop than we've
seen in some time. Rob joins us now for
more. Rob, good morning.
>> Morning. Are you saying it's more than
just a downshift in payrolls growth?
Well, that's the hard thing to judge
right now because on the one hand, we're
getting some type of softening in labor
demand. How big that is, we can debate.
But at the same time, we have a
softening of labor supply given some of
the tightening in immigration policy
we've seen. So, the break even payrolls
rate's going to fall, the one that
balances supply and demand. Um, but I
think the rate that we're running at is
below our estimate and frankly probably
almost anyone's estimate of what that
break even rate should be. So, it's a
concerning picture. Um, that being said,
when you look at some of the other data
that matches labor supply and labor
demand, wage growth, the unemployment
rate, also somewhat concerning on the
unemployment side, but not raising red
flags at the moment. So, I think
vulnerable is the best word to describe
at this point, but too soon to say that
we're going to downshift to a much
weaker level.
>> So, at the moment, we don't have the
economic data. What we will have is the
annex. So, we look to corporate America
for guidance of what the consumer is
doing. What we have seen is a trade
down. This is what Savita Subramanian of
Bank of America is worried about, that
the trade down metric could turn into
buy less. Are you seeing any of that in
data that you and the team track? Yeah,
and and as you mentioned, it's a
difficult situation at the moment
because uh some of the key data that we
track may not come out in in in coming
weeks. But so far, we are seeing
actually the consumer, at least in
aggregate, hold up quite well. Now, when
we've looked at this over the last few
years, you've seen some of these
narratives bubble up when you go across
the income spectrum. So, maybe on the
lower or middle income side, you've seen
some trading down, some more caution.
Upper income side continues to spend
quite strongly. Um, that dynamic is
likely continuing given the performance
of equity markets and the positive
wealth effect there. So, it's really not
that different of a picture that we've
seen in the last few years. The
difficult question is how much of the
consumption resilience that we've seen
this year is just front-loading activity
before things get more expensive from
the tariffs in coming months. And that's
the hard thing to judge at the moment.
>> Would rate cuts help give people jobs
given the fact that this is a two-tiered
economy which is being driven by a
technological advancement that is
benefiting a relatively small group of
workers at this point. I think that's
the key question is how helpful would
rate cuts be in that sense. Um, that
being said, I think it's clear that
it'll help at least somewhat. Um,
particularly for maybe uh more interest
rate sensitive sectors, interest rate uh
sensitive businesses. Um, but uh you
know, is it really going to move the
needle very much if we're cutting at a
gradual 25 basis point uh pace? Probably
not, which is why it is difficult if
things start to turn for the Fed to
really get ahead of it and to really
stop as that process is going. Another
way of saying, if we are moving into a
much weaker phase, uh the rate cuts can
blunt some of it, but it can't really
stop it, I think, at this stage.
>> Heading into the end of the month when
we get the next Fed meeting, Ian Lingam
was saying that we may just have one new
data point, which is how long the
government has shut down for. And that
actually might be the most instrumental
in deciding whether or not they're going
to cut rates further. Have you run
models to understand exactly how
exponentially greater the ramifications
are economically the longer that this
shutdown goes on? Yeah, this is a great
question as well. And when I've looked
at past shutdowns, in general, you find
that there's a modest negative drag as
it goes on for each week. Um, but then
most of that activity or almost all of
it is made up once that shutdown ends.
Now, this case might be a little bit
different because the administration's
talking about maybe not back paying some
employees, maybe uh permanently laying
off some furloughed workers. Then you
would get some of that negative drag
staying permanent. Um, but it's very
hard to know if you get some type of
non-linear effect uh the longer the
shutdown goes through. The channel that
I think that could happen from is if you
start to get some secondary confidence
effects from the shutdown, that people
get very worried about how long this is
going on, how dysfunctional is, start to
pull back in addition to the direct
economic effects of the shutdown. But if
it's just the actual shutdown itself, I
think it's pretty linear as we go on.
The more concerning thing I think is the
data aspect, which is the longer this
goes on, the more we're in the dark
because the longer those major sources
get delayed.
>> How difficult is it going to be for the
Fed at the end of October? It's going to
be really challenging, and I think at
least the the positive thing here is if
we listen to what the Fed had said at
the last meeting, um they were signaling
they were going to cut twice more this
year. Um, I think the data picture looks
broadly similar from what we're seeing
from some of the private side data, even
though that's kind of second best um uh
to the sort of the major official data.
So, I think the Fed would ideally like
to have these major measures as it goes
into that meeting. But without it, I
think the the risk management case says
you should be cutting rates as you said
before in that environment.
>> Circling back to your prior point about
tariffs, right now companies are,
according to you, absorbing 60 to 70% of
the tariffs. When does that get cut in
half? When do they start pushing more of
that onto consumers? Yeah, this and this
has been one of the most challenging
things for us to judge because we've
been trying to map the effects of the
tariffs. And you know, our view is that
they dampen US growth, they dampen
global growth, but it's been a much
slower process. And I think a big part
of that is US companies have been
shouldering a lot more of the cost than
expected, passing it on more gradually.
As you mentioned, right now we think
it's about 60 to 70% on US corporates.
Uh I think by we get by when we get to
the end of this year, early next year,
it's probably going to be something more
like 70% on the US consumer, 20% on US
corporates, 10% on foreign exporters is
our best guess. Uh but timing that's
been really challenging. Uh companies
have been working through inventories to
delay passing that on. Um, and they've
been using other strategies to kind of
delay that pass through. But we do think
more is coming.
>> I saw from the note from Nathan Sheets,
you and the team, that you do think it's
going to bite eventually, but you think
the bite's going to be smaller. Yeah.
And that the damage done for 26 will be
marginal compared to what was expected
back in April. Yeah, and it's feeling a
lot like the last few years where we had
relatively bearish forecasts for the US
economy, the global economy, and we
found ourselves remarkably surprised
with the resilience and the flexibility
that we saw there, and ended up marking
up our forecasts significantly over
those years, and ended up growing uh in
the global economy somewhere close to
trend, US economy above trend. Uh and so
now we're holding to that story that you
get a bit of a slowdown, but it's mostly
concentrated in the fourth quarter of
this year, and it is smaller than we
thought before. So, it's becoming a
tough call to hold on to given uh the
resilience we've seen. But we think
because of these factors, payback from
the front-loading of that spending from
the tariffs, and then eating into more
consumer income from that rise in
prices, that we'll get some type of a
more material slowdown. But so far,
we're not seeing it yet.
>> Rob, it's good to see you. As always,
thank you. So, Robert Sockin there of
Citi. It was certainly a sluggish
summer. We're hoping for a back bounce
back in September, October, and into
year end. For August, this came from
Redfin yesterday. Home buyers are
canceling deals at a record rate. Their
data indicating roughly 56,000 US home
purchase agreements were canceled in
August. That's equal to 15.1% of the
homes that went under contract that
month. That's the highest percentage in
records dating back to 2017 for the
month of August. Yeah, and this really
builds on what we're seeing, which is
really weak spending when it comes to
home improvement, really weak spending
when it comes to forward-looking
projects. How much is this
idiosyncratic, and how much do we have
the likes of uh Neil Dutta screaming
like, "No, this is the red this is the
red flag. You've got to watch this." And
a lot of people are. See that Citi's
contacts as well. We're hoping for that
bounce back. I hope we see it in the
data we will get in the next few months,
but at the moment, we haven't got data,
so it's not particularly helpful. Coming
up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Tom Becker of BlackRock, Michael
Townsend of Charles Schwab, Dominic
Rizzo of T. Rowe Price, and PIMCO's Rich
Clarida. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance just around the corner.
[Music]
It's amazing how well the economy does
despite the Washington.
>> The concerns about the loss of US
exceptionalism that were very dominant
in the first quarter, they haven't been
borne out in the data.
>> without a new data point, I think this
conversation is going to intensify and
complicate the ability for the Fed to
justify any further movement.
>> There's this unfettered belief that the
Fed can save every economic cycle, and
that's where I'm just not for sure that
occurs. unemployment situation's getting
worse and the Fed will have no choice
but to continue to recalibrate policy.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance as the second
hour starts right now with your scores
looking like this. Equity futures on the
S&P 500 firmer by 2/10 of 1% bouncing
back after snapping a seven-day winning
streak on the S&P. The main event so far
this morning, not in the stock market,
it's in the commodity market, gold. New
all-time high, record breaking through
4K for the first time ever at 1% today,
up 54% so far this year. A real
question, what's the signal from gold?
What What gold telling us? Is it talking
about the debasement of the dollar? Is
it talking about just generally the
central bank diversification that we've
seen going on? Is it because there is a
speculative fervor? Is because everyone
wants to be blinged out to start the end
of the year cycle? I just really I'm
looking at this and wondering what the
correlation is to gold going up and
stocks going up and whether we can talk
about how much people are losing faith
in some of the traditional currencies at
a time of quite a bit of dysfunction.
>> Goldman on the program earlier this
week. I think we get into the
speculative stage away from the central
bank diversification stage which started
maybe a couple of years ago because of
the war in Russia and Ukraine. We are
going somewhere else now and it's more
than just about the US dollar. Dollar's
at a two-month high. This week is about
the Japanese yen. It's about the euro.
You've been talking about it. It's about
fiat currency more generally that we're
seeing this move in gold. Absolutely. I
think the latest catalyst a lot of
people point to is the chaos in
Washington or not really chaos, just you
know, we're chugging along cuz we're
shut down. But the issue is global.
Japan Macronism failing again when it
comes to France. There's a lot of
political instability. You don't know
where to turn, so why not go for the
precious metal? No instability in the
equity market. Got another deal to talk
about potentially. Nvidia in the
pre-market up by 0.7%.
It's another deal. I'll keep this short
and very simple. Nvidia is investing in
another customer.
>> Yeah, Nvidia investing in Nvidia because
it's all essentially this is going to be
money that is going to come back to
Nvidia which raises a couple of
questions. Is this good for Nvidia?
Shares going up and they get the revenue
stream going forward. Is this good for
XAI given the fact that they are paying
up for the privilege of accelerating
their AI adoption and it raises a larger
question. Are people overly exuberant
about the promise of the profitability
of something that still is yet unproven
without necessarily accounting for the
costs that some of them are promising to
upfront now. And the fact that they're
all just paying each other and then
investing in each other. Morningstar
analyst had this to say we first had the
first deal with OpenAI and Nvidia. If we
get to a point a year from now where we
had an AI bubble and it popped, this
deal might be one of the early
breadcrumbs. If things go bad, circular
relationships might be at play. Ed
Ludlow happened to break this story.
He'll bring you the details in the next
step right here on Bloomberg. Savannah
is coming up this hour. Tom Becker of
BlackRock with gold at record highs. Don
Rissmiller of T. Rowe Price as XAI gets
a financial boost and Richard Clarida of
Pimco with friction growing at the
Federal Reserve. We begin this hour with
stocks bouncing back and gold through
4K. Tom Becker of BlackRock sees rising
risk. He writes the following. Financial
markets anticipated much of the recent
upside of the macro data and now the
path looks choppier as we head into
year-end. Tom joins us now for more.
Tom, good morning. Good morning. You've
taken down your equity exposure
recently. Let's start there. Why have
you been doing that?
So I think policy seems a little bit
less supportive to us as we head into
the end of the year.
This summer you had kind of policy
upside surprise that you could position
for particularly after Liberation Day.
Fed was looking to ease on any signs of
labor market weakness.
You had the the Treasury kind of drawing
down the TGA and kind of injecting
liquidity into the banking system. As we
head here into Q4, some of that's
reversed and so
stocks are pricing a lot of the good
news. We're heading into the Q3 earnings
period and I think they they sort of
navigated the the tariff disruptions
pretty well how they kind of you know
announced the Q2 earnings. So a little
bit less upside surprise there, but I
think there's this entanglement issue
between the Treasury and the Fed that to
us is drawing down liquidity here into
Q4 which is a little challenging. So
reserves for the banking system are
coming down as the Fed's liabilities
kind of shift down. Excess reserves are
an asset to the banking system. That
asset is is kind of drawing down here as
we head into Q4. We think that's going
to be a little bit less supportive of
liquidity and the government shut down
of course.
>> Well, you've also questioned the
benefits of being in bonds in your
previous appearances on this program
too. So taking down the equity exposure,
what are you taking up? So we have the
luxury of having lots of relative value
exposures in in some of the funds that
we manage and so by going long and short
different countries in equities, we can
kind of position for the outperformance
or the underperformance in bonds the
same thing. So we still like US equities
in the cross section. It's just
directionally we don't think that global
equities are attractive as they used to
be. So US, Japan look attractive. Some
emerging markets look a little bit kind
of
you know overpriced or kind of
over-owned with on the back of dollar
weakness.
On the bond side, we think relative
value in going into some of these
emerging markets like India, China where
inflation's low, we can get a real yield
in those markets and sort of stay out of
the developed markets where
issuance is high, inflation's still
sticky and so we're looking for those
relative value opportunities. What's so
interesting is we had Julian Emanuel on
earlier who's talking about the
potential for a bubble like condition
that pushes equities to 9,000 the S&P by
the end of next year. You're talking
about a turn to nowhere. How much are
these two stories at odds with one
another? I think people have
extrapolated the the really easy
financial conditions we've had this
summer and fall
and some of those we're seeing as as
turning to be a little bit less
supportive. And so when the Fed and the
Treasury are kind of like pedal to the
metal like it was this summer, I think
that's a great supportive environment
for risk assets. That's not what we see.
Um
the policies are a little bit more
entangled here with the Scott descent
kind of you know rebuilding the TGA
which is is a really big deal that
people under appreciate. And
I think that liquidity condition with
kind of prices where they are and
valuations where they are, positioning
where it is,
you know, the S&P is just making new
highs kind of week on week and I think
that's a little bit cause for concern.
So just you know just flatten out the
portfolio. I love this because so many
people come on and they say it's a
bubble. It's going to explode. Get on
the train or get away cuz it's going to
implode and you're saying actually if
you look at the monetary dynamics, it's
neither. It's just that this has been
the liquidity profile. Is that
essentially how you're looking at it?
This isn't necessarily an AI circular
financing fueled bubble that's going to
implode after exploding for the past
couple of years, but rather just a
technical aspect of the market that
people have under appreciated until now.
The earnings have been great. So Nvidia
has all this money to kind of do these
cross listing deals because they're
making so much money. So the US is where
the earnings have been globally. I don't
want to downplay that, but in terms of
just you know the supportiveness for all
financial assets, for gold like you were
talking about earlier, what are people
looking to do? They're looking to kind
of get some you know
to get keep purchasing power in some way
and I think the liquidity this summer
was just you know as as much as you
could ever hope for with the earnings
coming in much better than expected and
so a lot of that's in the price now.
Right now, what's riskier? The equity
markets in the US or the bond markets in
the US given the under appreciation that
you see in inflation? It's a tough
question.
I think the inflation profile, your last
guest was talking about this. It just
doesn't look good.
Services ex-shelter are just stuck
at a level that's too high. The goods
inflation is still trickling in. The Fed
was hoping this was going to be a
one-off and then in 12 months they could
say okay, the price level shock is is
done.
But instead you see goods trickling in
slowly because companies are trying to
kind of figure out how much the consumer
can bear, how much they can kind of you
know how much they can weather in terms
of their earnings. And and I think the
services side is really tricky with the
AI. I mean the the build-out of all of
these data centers you're not building
enough nuclear power plants and grid to
kind of support it and so consumers are
going to see that in their prices.
Restaurants are going to see that in
their costs and they're going to pass it
on to menus. And so this idea that it's
going to be a one-off and done goods
dynamic, I think there are other forces
at play that may maybe policy makers are
just under appreciating.
>> This is what I wanted to talk to you
about cuz this is the first note where
you was actually felt like an a red
alarm bell singing about inflation. It's
not tariffs. It's actually electricity
prices diverging around the world, but
all going up.
>> Yeah. How much is that going to be
basically a backstop to all of this
entire AI story? How does it continue if
prices are surging and policy makers say
actually our constituents are angry,
we're going to have to press pause? It's
kind of Econ 101. You have demand going
up and supply just stuck and so you just
can't build out the supply to kind of
the electrons just aren't there for all
of this and people are also installing
heat pumps. So like the the IRA pull
forward, you know, everyone got their
electric cars I hope in the last few
weeks cuz the credits expired. No, but
the but really
the electrification of of of society is
happening and then we've layered on this
huge kind of AI data center thing on top
of it and we just haven't done the
build-out of kind of the the grid to
support it. So I think there's this
larger force at play.
These don't happen all the time. So it's
not like Fed policy makers can say oh
the last time we had kind of an AI
bubble or an AI build-out, it was
inflationary. And so I think they're
just missing some of the the services
inflation is coming from.
>> The political blowback could be severe.
The pursuit of 2% is looking less and
less credible at the Federal Reserve.
What are the consequences of that?
Because it's not just the Federal
Reserve. We now got the BOJ in the mix
as well. New leadership in Japan and
potentially a BOJ that says you know
what? We were going to hike, but now
we're not going to hike. What does all
this add up to?
I think it adds up to people looking for
other ways to get exposure to kind of
hedge their inflation risk. So fiat
currency the gold story I think is tied
into it's not just a US story. It really
is kind of all the fiat currencies. It
is this fiscal dominance dynamic we've
had post-pandemic. And so pedal to the
metal fiscal at the bond market doesn't
like it then you shorten supply. You
kind of like hey, you only issue bills.
You don't you know you don't ram the
long end of the market, but all of this
is you know we just have a lot of debt
that we need to issue and a lot of
investment we need to do and so
trying to find an equilibrium. The
relief valve is the currency. You're
going to issue right at the front end.
The Fed's going to look through a lot of
this stuff. The release valve is the
currency, which is why we're seeing a
move in gold. Yeah, the currency based
on what? We're used to pricing things in
dollar. Well, if you price it on gold,
it's a very different story and I think
that that's what an increasing number of
people are looking at.
>> Tom, final note. Your commitment to
Halloween, I respect it.
Do you want to tell the audience what
we're going as? I think it's going to be
Ted Lasso.
>> That's very cool. Thank you. You're
going to share a picture next time
you're on? I might. We'll make that
happen for sure. Tom, you're a good
sport. Good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Tom Becker there at BlackRock. Thank
you, sir. I'm not doing it. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief. It's
Vanya Quinn. Hey, Vanya. Hey, John.
Thank you.
New developments this morning involving
Elon Musk's push into artificial
intelligence. Musk's xAI is said to be
raising $20 million including $2 million
from Nvidia to finance AI chips for its
Colossus 2 project. Sources are telling
us here at Bloomberg the deal split
between equity and debt allows xAI to
rent Nvidia processors for 5 years.
Salesforce won't pay a ransom demand
from a hacker who claims to have stolen
client data and threatens to publish it.
The hacking group known as Shiny Hunters
threatened to share information stolen
during a security incident involving the
third-party app Salesloft Drift.
And in sports, the New York Yankees live
to see another day after winning game
three of the ALDS against the Toronto
Blue Jays 9-6. Aaron Judge's three-run
homer tied the game at six and Jazz
Chisholm Jr. hit a go-ahead solo shot.
The Blue Jays now lead the best-of-five
series 2-2-1. Game four takes place in
the Bronx tonight. That's your Bloomberg
Brief, John. Vanya, thank you. You're
happy? Staying alive. I'm so happy. It
was so embarrassing how bad the Yankees
were in Toronto. And also, hello to all
of our Canadians that wake up early and
watch us. I got so much hate mail. It's
one of the best parts of the job. Half
the audience, all right. And look, I
have my jersey. I'm playing Wordle.
You're just ignoring all this. This is
just a hater. I get notifications on
your phone a few times. Do you play
Wordle during the show? It's just like
watching Annie Yeager. She just went
just went No, no, she was
she was She played Candy Crush. She was
Candy Crush.
>> bee. I love the spelling bee.
>> that the Treasury Secretary was playing
Candy Crush when inflation was near
double digits? We're just in meetings
playing Candy Crush. Maybe it's a you
know, politics
Sure. Okay. Up next on the program, back
pay under threat.
Is it the White House's position that
furloughed workers should be paid for
their back pay?
Uh I would say it depends on who we're
talking about.
>> Every single furloughed federal employee
is entitled to back pay. That
conversation up next with Michael
Townsend of Charles Schwab live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Gold, it happened. 4K. 3 4K and not just
a small break, a clean break of 4,000 up
on the session by 1.3% a four-day
winning run taking this year's gain to
54%
for gold for 2025, the biggest annual
return potentially
on record going all the way back to the
1970s. Under Savannah this morning,
we're talking less about that and more
about this, the government shutdown.
Paid back pay is under threat.
Is it the White House's position that
furloughed workers should be paid for
their back pay?
Uh I would say it depends on who we're
talking about. For the most part, we're
going to take care of our people. There
are some people that really don't
deserve to be taken care of.
>> Every single furloughed federal employee
is entitled to back pay.
Period. Full stop. The law is clear. So,
here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump threatening to
withhold back pay for some federal
workers as the government shutdown
enters its eighth day. Bloomberg's
Taylor Kendo joins us now for more.
Taylor, welcome to the program. Is the
law clear?
So, John, it appears that the White
House is taking aim at this 2019 law
that was signed and enacted actually by
President Trump after the last shutdown
and is seen as the durable legal basis
for federal workers to be compensated
during times like these. But according
to an OMB memo that's been drafted, it
appears that they are arguing that this
law has actually been misconstrued. They
say that these back pay funds need to be
appropriated explicitly and that they
are not an automatic guarantee. Now,
this is just a draft memo from the OMB,
but if it is followed through on, it
will no doubt face legal challenges. In
fact, you even had House Speaker Mike
Johnson yesterday confirm to reporters
that Congress is looking into the
legality of back pay as this issue moves
forward and no doubt adds to the
escalation that we're seeing as
President Trump yesterday also told
reporters in the Oval Office that he
will decide within the next four to five
days whether or not to follow through on
threats of permanent layoffs for federal
workers though declined to give us many
specifics on exactly who that could be
targeted against. I will say that we
should keep in mind an estimated 750,000
federal workers are expected to be
furloughed during the shutdown. And
John, while the White House has taken
some of these steps to definitely ramp
up the pressure, we're actually seeing
the White House try to mitigate some of
the impacts as this these discussions
really start to drag on now into the
second week. I mentioned yesterday on
the program to pay very close attention
to what happens with WIC, the
supplemental nutrition assistance
program for women and children. And
yesterday, John, the White House
confirmed it's going to use tariff
revenue to supplement the program, try
to downplay and mitigate those impacts
as the shutdown goes forward. Taylor
Kendo with the latest in Washington.
Taylor, thank you. To build on that
conversation, joining us now is Michael
Townsend of Charles Schwab. Michael,
welcome to the program. So, the
president's words, I would say it
depends on who we're talking about. For
the most part, we're going to take care
of our people. For some people, they
really don't deserve to be taken care
of. Now, Michael, for a long time,
people have always said, "Take the
president seriously, not literally." How
seriously should we take that?
Well, I I think that the president, we
all know the president says a lot of
things that maybe go off message now and
then. And I certainly think you saw some
people on Capitol Hill on the Republican
side a little bit frustrated with that
because, you know, I'm not sure that
that helped their messaging. Democrats
have done a pretty good job at staying
on message, focusing on this healthcare
issue. But I think when you're talking
about not paying furloughed workers, I'm
not sure that that's what the
Republicans on the Hill were hoping to
hear from the White House. So, we'll see
if he follows through on that. We also
have, as Taylor just pointed out, we
have threats to permanently lay off
federal workers.
You know, I'm not sure that that's
really helping the Republican messaging
here. Who is winning the messaging right
now, Michael?
I I think the Democrats are staying more
united. And and we certainly saw that in
the last 24 hours with these couple of
comments from the White House. But
Democrats have been very focused on this
healthcare issue. It's polling pretty
well. I think they've done a good job at
sticking with it. But I also think
there's a reality here that, you know,
no one historically wins these fights.
You know, this is one of those things
that a lot of people around the country
I think roll their eyes at. You know,
pay federal workers. Let's get the
federal government open and functioning
again. You know, I can't get the Social
Security Administration on the phone
when I have a problem. That's the sort
of thing that, you know, I think who's
winning the fight ultimately doesn't
usually pay off very well in these in
these disputes. Americans roll their
eyes until they're stuck at an airport,
Michael. Is that going to be the biggest
precious pressure point for this
administration as it was for Trump in
2019?
I I think that's definitely a big one.
There's nothing more frustrating than
long lines at the airport. And, you
know, we've seen some evidence that the
lack of air traffic controllers at some
airports is starting to impact flights,
delay flights, close airports. And
that's obviously going to be incredibly
frustrating. I think the other big one
is going to be the federal paydays that
are coming up. We've got a payday coming
up on October 10th for for some federal
workers. But the two big ones are
October 15th, which is the military
payday, and then October 16th, which is
the bulk of federal workers.
Once you start missing checks, I think
the the the tone sort of changes, the
attitude changes because now you're sort
of affecting people in a real world way.
And that's, you know, you're talking
about a lot of federal workers
potentially missing paychecks. So, I
think those are two big pain points, the
the federal paydays and and the airlines
situation, the airport situation that
could maybe start to to move this in a
more productive direction in terms of
the negotiations on Capitol Hill.
Michael, I'm just wondering going
forward if we're still talking about the
potential for widespread layoffs during
the shutdown or if that's been taken
kind of out of the picture.
Well, the president has again, you know,
threatened that, but he's really been
threatening that since the start of the
shutdown and it hasn't happened yet. And
I think there's, you know, there's some
sense that there's
a leverage point there for the White
House to kind of keep that hanging out
there as a threat to try to encourage
Democrats to to come to the table and
and have discussions. I certainly think
there's some pressure on the Maryland
and and Virginia senators. You know,
they've got a lot of federal workers in
those in those states. But so far, I
don't think that's been effective. And,
you know, the idea of just firing
workers who had nothing to do with this
entire dispute, just people trying to do
their job. Um, I'm not sure that's going
to play well in the public. So, I I
think the threats are there. We'll see
whether there's actually a
follow-through. Michael, I wonder if you
can look at the parallel right now,
which is the Supreme Court that is
expected to rule at any time on the
tariffs. And I wonder how much that's at
play here. If that comes out at a time
of a government shutdown, how much that
reiterates the need to cut deficits
should some of that funding not be
coming in through the tariffs, at least
not now in that lever.
Yeah, I mean, I I think the tariff case
is an absolute fascinating one and
obviously going to be huge. You know,
we're probably,
you know, 6 to 8 weeks away from getting
a decision. You've got the arguments in
early November and then maybe early
December would be a a logical timeline
for a decision. But boy, I agree that
would really kind of throw things into
into chaos. And you know, that would
also open up questions about whether
there would be refunds for for tariffs
already paid. So, I think that's a huge
case. I'm not sure that you know, that's
going to have a huge direct tie to the
to the shutdown other than the fact that
the president and others have said
they're going to use tariff revenue for
various
purposes during the shutdown. You
mentioned I think Tyler mentioned
earlier the Wick program that the White
House says that they're going to
re-route some tariff revenue to to
support that program. So,
I absolutely think that that case is an
incredibly important one to watch and
we'll see how it plays out in a few
weeks. Michael, when it comes to service
members getting paid, that's in a week.
2018-2019 shutdown lasted as long as it
did because the Pentagon was funded. Is
there any talk right now that even if we
still under shutdown, the Pentagon will
be funded and men and women that serve
this country will get paid?
Yeah, there has been some talk on
Capitol Hill about, you know, passing
something that would specifically pay
people who are serving right now in the
military.
That seems like a big lift. I mean,
obviously the House of Representatives
is not even in session right now. We're
not sure exactly when they're going to
come back.
But you know, I do think that's a big
big pain point. There's no question that
that's going to be a little bit of a
tipping moment here in this discussion.
Once the military misses that paycheck,
I think that's going to be very
frustrating. You're talking about you
know, something in the order of 1.4
million
people not getting a paycheck at that
time. So, I I do think that's going to
be a pain point. Whether they can pass
legislation to specifically pay them
is unclear. But I think you make a
really important distinction from the
last shutdown, which is that the
Pentagon was funded at that time. That
last shutdown in 2018
early 2019 was a partial shutdown
because some agencies had already gotten
their appropriation. So again, I think
that's a big difference between this one
and and that previous one. A key
distinction. Michael, thank you, sir.
Thank you very much. Michael Tannenbaum
there at Charles Schwab. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Don Russo
at T. Rowe Price with another AI
spending deal in the works. Plus,
Yahaira has your morning movers. Lucid
shares sinking after third quarter
deliveries disappoint. That name is down
more than 3%.
[Music]
7-day winning streak on the S&P 500
interrupted in yesterday's session. Back
on course today, up by 1/10 of 1% on the
S&P. On the Nasdaq, up by 0.1% also on
the Russell, the small caps up by around
about a quarter of 1%. In the bond
market, two events later on this
afternoon. A 10-year government bond
auction coming later, $39 billion worth
tomorrow, $22 billion of 30-year bonds.
That auction later is at 1:00 p.m. 1
hour later, Fed minutes. So, all of that
in focus for fixed income. 2s at 3.56,
10s at about 4.1% so far this morning.
As we count you down to the opening bell
about 2 hours away, let's get you some
morning movers. Here's Yahaira with
more. Hey, Yahaira. Hi, John. With spot
gold now topping $4,000 an ounce, gold
miners are riding the wave. We are
seeing shares of Newmont and Barrick up.
While Equinox Gold is up 2 and 1/2%.
Silver miners are also catching a bit
here after that massive milestone.
Meanwhile, moving on to Amazon, it
announced this morning that it is
rolling out pharmacy kiosks in offices
of its One Medical doctor service
starting in December in Los Angeles.
Basically allowing patients to pick up
their prescriptions right after their
appointments and that ease and the
potential that Amazon expands the
program is sending CVS shares slightly
lower a 10th of 1%. And we end on Lucid.
It had a plunge yesterday 10% down
another 3% today after third quarter
sales and production targets missed
estimates. It comes after both Tesla and
Rivian beat expectations as buyers rush
to grab those EV tax credits ahead of
their expiration. But
Lucid not benefiting from that. John.
Yahaira, thank you. Not just Lucid, of
course. Yahaira touched on the auto
sector more broadly. BMW, they had to
cut their forecast too, citing China and
tariff costs.
German auto manufacturers not in a good
place right now. They're getting
absolutely destroyed by China and the
export machine that's there, by tariffs
in the United States. And they're
squeezed in the middle without a
cohesive policy about exactly how
they're going to counter it. 7% move
over in German trading. We're down by
close to 8% on that stock. And I'll rate
that this morning, President Donald
Trump threatening to withhold back pay
for some furloughed federal workers.
Democrats pointing to a law passed by
Congress and signed by Trump during his
first term guaranteeing compensation for
those workers. Turning to this story,
too. The price of gold soaring to 4,000
an ounce for the first time ever as
concerns over the US economy continue to
grow. Ray Dalio, the founder of
Bridgewater Associates, saying gold is
more of a safe haven than the dollar.
Gold is a a very excellent diversifier
of the portfolio. So, if you were to
look at just from the strategic asset
allocation mix perspective,
uh, you would probably have something
like as the optimal mix, something like
15% of your portfolio in gold. That was
Ray Dalio sitting down with Lisa just
yesterday. Lisa, your thoughts? Well, it
was interesting cuz Ken Griffin came out
and said that actually gold would be a
better haven than the dollar. And Ray
Dalio said absolutely. He's had 15%
allocation to gold for a while. He said
tactically he's increasing that
significantly. And it has to do with
what you were just talking about, the
loss of faith in fiat currencies given
the fact that there is this
monetization, this financialization of
deficits around the world. That's the
latest on gold. We'll come back to that
conversation. Really interesting the way
things are changing not just for Ray
Dalio, but for others, too. Well, let's
turn to Oracle. Looking to bounce back
after a report showing thin cloud
computing profit margins. Oracle
generating about 900 million from
rentals of servers powered by Nvidia
chips, but recording a gross profit of
just 125
million dollars. That was enough to
disrupt the story for Oracle and others,
too, just yesterday. It highlights how
concerned people are that maybe the
profitability isn't going to be the
money-making machine that we've seen
over the past 3 years. The idea that
they could generate 900 million dollars
in revenue, but at just 125 million
dollars of profit suggests they're
paying high costs on a relative basis
for the privilege of renting Nvidia
chips, for the privilege of having a
relationship with Open AI. Who else is
doing this? Is this an Oracle problem or
is this a more global problem about
expensive leases, expensive rental
contracts, expensive debt that a lot of
these companies are incurring because
the race to adopt is more important than
the price to adopt.
>> what? Jensen Huang says nothing to see
here. Don't worry. Last night apparently
he says Oracle will do be wonderfully
profitable when
based off this report about their about
their GPUs and the margins are just not
there. Talk about the circular economy
of AI. You have Jensen Huang coming out
and saying, "Oh, ignore this. It's it's
going to be fine." When it comes to AI
and Oracle is just going to do fine even
though right now this information report
is saying things are not looking too
bright. Let's stay on top of tech. Elon
Musk's xAI raising more financing than
initially planned. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg the Musk company is
tapping backers including Nvidia. Don
Russo of T. Rowe Price manages a tech
portfolio. He writes, "Investor
sentiment around AI remains firmly
constructive. The sector is being driven
by real fundamentals and not hype." Don
joins us now for more. Don, welcome to
the program. And I think you're
absolutely right. There are real
fundamentals here and it's not just
hype. But there are some echoes of what
happened in the late '90s, specifically
vendor financing. And I wonder how
you're reflecting on that and making
sure that you identify the pieces of
this that feel a bit frothy and the
pieces of this that are truly
fundamental.
Of course. Well, first off, thanks for
having my me, guys. It's great to be
back here. Look, if we take a step back,
all this capital spending is really
coming down to one thing. Is the scaling
laws going to continue or not? If you
throw 10x more compute at a problem, are
you going to get 2x more intelligence?
And right now, the answer seems to be
yes. Now, if we take a step back, that's
hard to kind of fathom as we go from a
world where AI chips were $45 billion in
to $500 billion in 2028 to upwards of a
trillion dollars in 2030. And that money
needs to come some from somewhere. I
think it's going to come from a couple
different sources. One is the vendor
financing like you mentioned. And you
alluded to the '90s. Well, vendor
financing actually started in '97 back
in the day.
And you look where else it could come
from, it's going to come from private
capital, right? So, private credit, all
these large private credit credit funds
being raised. I think a lot of it's
going to be employed in the data center.
And then most importantly, this
buildout. And the biggest difference
with the '90s is this buildout's being
funded by by the most profitable
companies in existence. And their core
business is accelerating because of AI.
So, I I think there's some similarities
and some differences. Our job is to
navigate it responsibly for our clients.
>> Tom, that difference at the end is
absolutely critical and I want you to
elaborate on it if you can. The strength
of the balance sheets now compared to
what things looked like then.
Well, let's take a look at Google,
right? So so Google obviously has a big
portfolio, whether it's search, YouTube,
their core chip business that they've
used the TPUs to power their AI are
fabulous.
Now, they have
they're going to take their CapEx up
this year to $85 billion. I actually
think there's potentially even upside to
that.
Despite that, they're still going to
generate $75 billion of free cash flow,
right? So there's a very big difference
with the '90s and then if you look at
Microsoft, the amount of cash flow from
operations they generate, Amazon, I mean
this is being funded by some of the most
profitable companies in existence.
Dominic, would you rather own the equity
or the debt given the fact that they're
probably going to be able to pay it
back, but the real question is about how
much they can monetize it?
Well, Microsoft actually borrows cheaper
than the US government today, right? You
guys were talking about the US
government. Uh from from a they're able
to borrow cheaper than the US government
today.
Uh look, I personally think the best
place to be is AI chips, right? I I I
think that there are periods of time
where software has the power and there's
periods of time where hardware has the
power and I think we're in one of those
points right now where hardware has the
power. Names like Nvidia, AMD, Broadcom
are going to see huge incremental
operating profit growth as we go from a
$45 billion chip world to a $500 billion
chip world and I think that's what we
saw with that open AI AMD deal the other
day. So, if we consider that Nvidia's
going to be the winner, they're
financing with pretty hefty costs other
people to buy those chips, are they
going to be the losers from these deals?
Are they going to be paying prices that
are going to end up being punitive to
their bottom line?
Well, first off, I think it's very hard
to bet against Jensen. So, let's see
what ends up happening with these deals.
If he thinks that Oracle's going to be
profitable one day, I would imagine that
they are going to be meaningfully
profitable one day. We take that Oracle
deal for example. Of course that we're
not anywhere close to long-term
profitability. I think the number you
said was $900 million in terms of
revenue. I mean their RPO was hundreds
of billions of dollars, right? So we're
still very very early in this. In terms
of let's take that open AI deal as an
example, right?
Uh with with Jensen, I I I I think that
for that $100 billion of CapEx spend
that he's going to end up putting out
for them, they're going to get anywhere
from $100 billion to $200 billion of net
dollars of net income and also 10 to 15%
of open AI depending on the valuation
that they end up investing. So, I think
I think the deals that they're writing
right now seem to be
quite quite value creative for
shareholders. Dom, have you thought
about the energy availability? Is it
there to be able to really build out
these data centers and these projects
these companies are talking about?
You know, it's such a great question and
I'm so glad you asked it because I
actually think this is not going to be
nearly the problem that people think it
is, okay? So, the general electricity in
the United States is like 1.3 terawatts
or so and people are talking that we
need anywhere from an additional 50
gigawatts to another 100 gigawatts to
make this transition work, right? Well,
first off, you build the energy grid for
not not for peak, right? So, most of the
time the energy grid's actually far
underutilized and you can do this thing
called filling the shoulder, right? You
can you can run these data centers when
we're not running our air conditioning
and I actually think that's a really
interesting proposition. There's a lot
of capacity already in the grid, not to
mention all the brownfield facilities,
whether it's natural gas or coal that
can come back online. Over the long
term, 2030 and beyond, of course we have
to figure out how to do other sorts of
transitions from an energy perspective,
but in the short to medium term, I
actually think we're completely fine on
energy. Now, I'll give you a quick stat.
Each GPU consumes roughly the same
amount of power as the average American
house, right? So, when we're talking
about a million GPU clusters, we're
talking about a million-person cities.
This is a big deal. We have to figure it
out over over over the long term, but in
the short term, I actually think we're
okay. Another policy issue I want to
talk to you about cuz I know you have a
holding of ASML. They're actually
falling today because of what's going on
in terms of how much their sales are
reliant on China and this committee in
Washington, D.C. really going after
that. Are you concerned with the
geopolitical rhetoric and how hot it can
get surrounding all of these companies
that are reliant on doing business in
Beijing?
Well, I think the geopolitical rhetoric
kind of actually talks to how important
these companies are, right? The linchpin
status that these companies hold in our
ecosystem today, right? I can make a
super compelling case that ASML is one
of the most important companies in the
world be their extreme ultraviolet
lithography technology. Now, if we look
at the entire semi capital equipment
industry, roughly 20 to 30% of that is
going to China today. That's actually
picked up over the past few years.
I think that's more of a mixed reason.
We've had very weak memory spending in
the US and
um
in Korea and I think that's going to
come back and I think a lot of this
leading edge foundry spend is still on
the come. So, we'll see what ends up
happening there. A lot of the China
business is lagging edge, right? It's
not leading edge. It's things, you know,
14 nanometers and above, which is
actually wildly profitable business for
these semi capital equipment companies,
very very high incremental operating
margins. Look, let's see what ends up
happening with a lot of these companies.
They've actually gone up a lot recently,
too. So, there's always chances for
tactical tactical pullbacks and we're
always flexible in our framework. But
over the long term, we're kind of
thinking about these companies seeing
increasing capital intensity at the semi
manufacturing layer. These companies
will collect economic rents and ASML
with their with their prime position in
extreme ultraviolet lithography remains
one of the best positions.
>> Tom, just before you go,
isn't this what the market is asking
for? I'm always interested in how
financial markets condition the C-suite
and you mentioned Microsoft borrowing
costs. That's the market telling
Microsoft to lever up, borrow from the
debt market. And what I'm seeing this
morning, we've seen repeatedly over the
last week and this is slightly snarky,
but take it somewhat seriously. The
market's telling these companies not to
bother with buybacks, just to buy your
customers, just to invest in them and
you'll get rewarded even more in the
equity market. So, Dom, don't you think
we're just going to see even more of
this in the next few months just until
the market says no more?
I you look, all cycles are reflexive,
right? Price action ends up creating
reality and reality ends up creating
price action and if we end up going
forward, look, I think AI has the
potential to be the biggest productivity
enhancer for the global economy since
electricity. Electricity added roughly
1% to GDP for every year for 32 years.
People are going to want to pull that
spending in.
What happens with productivity cycles?
Speculative bubbles. Our job is to use
our investment framework to navigate
those speculative bubbles responsibly
for our clients and we do that by trying
to capture the upside and blunt the
downside. So, I think it's a great point
you raised. Hey Tom, it's going to catch
up with you. Fantastic conversation. Tom
Essaye of
T. Rowe Price. That reflexive nature is
going to be what causes this massive
misallocation of resources. At what
point, I don't know and in the minds of
a lot of people that come on this
program, they seem to be pointing out
that this is just the beginning. You
know, Dom mentioned there '97. Like this
time might just be the beginning of that
feature of all of this. Because it's
your point, the market's saying go for
it and guess what? We endorse it and at
a certain point you start to have to
watch how much leverage is getting built
in and how realistic some of these deals
look, but it doesn't seem like we're
there yet. Nasdaq futures up again this
morning by a tenth of 1%. Similar move
on the S&P 500 with an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. With your
Bloomberg brief, here's Vani Khana. Hey
Vani. Hey John, thank you. President
Donald Trump says he expects the US and
Canada to come to an agreement, but
remains vague about how and when it
might be achieved. Canadian Prime
Minister Mark Carney told Trump that
Canada is the largest foreign investor
in the United States and suggested the
pace of investment may accelerate if
they get the agreement they expect to
get.
Meta and Apple reportedly nearing
settlements with the EU on two major
antitrust cases. The Financial Times
reports the companies are in the final
stages of a deal with regulators to
change a range of business practices.
Meta is expected to modify its
controversial pay or consent data
tracking model, while Apple is moving to
comply by altering its App Store
policies.
Thousands of flights have been delayed
due to air traffic control staffing
shortages during the 8-day so far
government shutdown. Air traffic
controllers are considered essential
workers and are exempt from being
furloughed, but will continue to work
without pay.
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
Vani, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, gold standard data.
I do think that the US government data
have been and remain and will continue
to remain uh the gold standard and and
the best in the world. We'd just like to
see some of it. Richard Clarida of PIMCO
joins us next.
[Music]
Stocks are positive by 0.2% bouncing
back once again this morning on the S&P
500. Similar story across the board on
the Nasdaq up by 0.2 on the Russell
2000. Small caps up by 0.4. Under
surveillance this morning, gold standard
data.
My view is that monetary policy should
be forward-looking. Uh policy works in
the economy with lags. One reason for
for for why my dot for 2025 sticks out
so much from everyone else's is because
I'm more sanguine on the inflation
outlook. I do think that the US
government data have been and remain and
will continue to remain uh the gold
standard and and the best in the world.
So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking for clues from the
Federal Reserve meeting minutes with
official government data now on hold.
The former Fed Vice Chair, Richard
Clarida, now with PIMCO writing, "In the
absence of official data, private sector
releases provided the only available
signals, imperfect but informative,
adding to a broader array of data points
consistent with a slowing of the US
labor market. Richard joins us now for
more. Richard, good to see you. As
always, glad to be here.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Critical moment
for the Federal Reserve. They're calling
it a risk management a risk management
decision back at the end of September.
What do you think the decision will look
like at the end of this month?
Well, I think they cut again in part cuz
they may not get any more official data
between now and then and the high
frequency data has been consistent with
a slowing labor market. So, we are
expecting a cut at the end of the month.
You and the team have talked about the
tension across traditional indicators.
Can you build on some of that? Where are
you seeing tension right now?
Well, at least through the summer, you
know, Powell and the committee seemed to
talk about this this curious balance in
the labor market. Low payroll gains, but
but also lower supply of labor cuz of
immigration. And I think the balance
tipped with the big revisions that we
got in early September. 900,000 jobs
being revised away. And also some of the
official prints. So, I think the
combination of that did tilt the balance
towards the risk management cut. Which
raises this question of the risk
management on the labor market. Is that
going to hamper the risk management when
it comes to the inflation side of
things? Do you think that the Fed and
potentially the markets are
underestimating how much that piece is
going to roar back in the beginning of
next year?
I think it's a great point because there
are two sides to risk management and the
other piece is the inflation risk
management. And the reality is is core
inflation now is about where it was 18
months ago. It's a little bit below 3%.
That's better than, you know, several
years ago, but I think that is a risk
management consideration. And, you know,
Lisa, you do hear that from some Fed
officials in their commentary. The more
hawkish members of the committee
reminding that there's also a risk to
inflation. Do you think that we are high
enough above the neutral rate to have
risk management cuts that do not
materially affect the inflation
backdrop? Because that is the argument
that some might make when they weigh the
labor market more than the inflation
side. Well, first and foremost, we don't
observe the neutral rate. We all try to
guess a little bit about what it is. I I
do agree with the the committee that
rates are currently at least somewhat
restrictive, but I think once you start
talking about another two or three cuts
from here, you'll probably get folks on
the committee
with differing views on on that. And I
think also the neutral rate also depends
on broader financial conditions and
those are being supported by enthusiasm
about AI. So, a lot of a lot of juggling
that the Fed needs to do right now.
Besides not having the data, how does
the government shutdown impact the
Federal Reserve? Cuz you were there for
the longest government shutdown in
2018-2019 of 35 days.
Typically not so much. The the most
relevant part, indeed, Amara, is the
data. If you're not getting the data,
you're feeling a little you're you're
feeling a little bit
incomplete, although there are
alternative sources. Usually government
shutdowns are really more of a political
story than an economic story. You know,
workers get the back pay eventually.
Um, and so, um, it's really more about
the data than I think anything else.
>> Workers usually get the back pay.
President Trump is using this as a
threat. Is this time different? It could
be different. I'm not up on the statute
about what what is relevant or not, but
in the past the episodes have not been
that disruptive macroeconomically cuz of
the back pay. When do valuations start
to matter in financial markets? This
came from the Bank of England. My
McKee's going to be talking about this
later. The Bank of England say equity
valuations appear stretched notably for
AI firms. The chairman of the Fed was
asked about valuations recently and he
gave a throwaway comment about
valuations being somewhat high. Nothing
too much. But when do they start to
become a factor for you? Uh, well, you
know, I I guess the quip would be
something along the lines of, you know,
valuations don't matter till they do.
Uh, we don't know what that is. Now, the
reality is is there's a lot for the US
equity market to like. The US is a
rapidly growing economy compared to the
rest of the the G7. Strong productivity
growth, innovation. So, there's always a
balancing act as there was in the '90s
earlier in my career about if
fundamentals versus, you know,
irrational exuberance. Yeah. If you were
still on the Fed, would you be concerned
about valuations currently?
It would be an input right now, but in
particular, what we're seeing in the
equity markets is a lot different than
in the '90s. These are real companies
with real cash flows and real business
models. It's much less of the sort of
pets.com euphoria that we saw then. So,
it would be on my radar screen, but it
would not be first order right now.
Doesn't it raise a question of exactly
the transmission mechanism of lowering
rates right now and exactly how much
that actually can support job growth
given the fact that there is completely
open capital markets?
>> back to the earlier comment, if it would
be on my radar screen, it would be more
along the lines of perhaps rate or not
all that rates are not all that
restrictive given the the elevated
valuations and wealth effect in the
economy. So, that's another input to to
that.
>> that's the concern people have, Richard,
and I'd love your input on this. The
risk of the Fed is anchoring themselves
to one particular data point and that's
payrolls growth. Yeah. When you look
across the broader economy, GDP's
holding up quite well. Financial
conditions are super loose. Loose. Does
that have to be a consideration on the
committee month end? Do they have to
start thinking about maybe we're
anchoring ourselves to the wrong data
point here?
I think it's a consideration, but again,
I just go by what what they say, not
what I think they should do. And and
they or at least the chair seems to have
made the decision that they're in risk
management mode. He said many times for
more than a year they do not want to see
additional slowing in the labor market.
And so, I think at least for the rest of
this year that is going to be driving
the the decision. But you are right. The
only way to square the GDP data, you
know, GDP now is somewhere in the threes
for the third
third quarter. And the labor market data
is very strong productivity.
This is a dilemma for the Federal
Reserve month end. Richard, good to see
you as always.
>> Thank you. Richard Clarida of PIMCO on a
difficult decision for the Federal
Reserve. More difficult than I think
others have suggested given what's
happening elsewhere beyond just a step
down in payrolls. And I know I sound
like a broken record, but the chairman
Powell we've heard from recently
was different to the chairman Powell we
heard at the end of July with regards to
the labor market.
>> Talking about the unemployment rate
versus the actual absolute number of
jobs being created. This is a difficult
moment. I mean, I was speaking with Ray
Dalio yesterday and I was asked him, do
you think that it is appropriate for the
Fed to cut rates? And I expected him to
say absolutely not. Look at the
debasement of the dollar. Look at what's
going on with gold. He said it's tricky
because this is a bifurcated economy and
the lower income sphere is more
leveraged to that short end rate. So, it
is just a very complicated moment.
>> positioning at Goldman, I imagine he'd
love them to cut the end of this month.
Oh, that would happen. Exactly.
Maybe so, but you know, for larger
picture stories, maybe not so much.
Coming up on the program. Russ Mayfield
of Baird, David Deckelbaum of TD Cowen,
Greg Daco of EY, Ella Horton of BMY. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
[Music]
The market seems to be a new economy
dynamics, right? At least for AI. We are
still in the earlier part of the
investment cycle.
>> Call it over a quarter of the economic
growth is coming from this AI super
cycle.
>> At this point, I think we're getting
into bubble territory. Whenever demand
is very strong and has been for a number
of years, one has to always have an eye
towards the next downturn. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Annmarie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Looking at
all-time highs potentially at the
opening bell up 2/10 of 1% on the S&P.
On the Nasdaq up by 0.2 also on the
Russell up by 0.5. Check out this name
in the premarket. Nvidia inching higher
through most of this morning up again by
0.6%
as we break some news that they might be
investing in XAI. Yeah, and this really
has raised questions. We've been
discussing it throughout the morning
that maybe Nvidia is lending money and
giving money to other companies to buy
Nvidia chips. And does this feel
reminiscent of some of the things that
we saw back in the 1990s, late 1990s
heading into the dot-com bubble and then
the bust? Question is, let's say it is.
Does that mean you buy more? Or does it
mean that you flee? Because ultimately,
if it's a bubble to the point that
Julian Emanuel was making, doesn't it
have a lot more to blow considering the
fact that we've seen a lot of bubbles
and they've gotten a lot bigger than
this one. Market conditions are
incentivizing more of the same behavior.
It's going to take a very disciplined
C-suite to resist some of this. We
mentioned this with T. Rowe Price just
moments ago. Look at the borrowing cost
of Microsoft. That's the debt market
telling these big tech players, your
balance sheets are strong. Do more.
Borrow some money. Go and invest even
more. And also based on the deals, and I
know I've said I've been snarky about
this a few times, but I am kind of
serious.
This equity market is telling these
major tech players, don't just do
buybacks. Use that money now to invest
in some of your customers. These
companies that are going to spend money
with you because the stock market is
going to reward that, too. And honestly,
I can actually understand the rationale
for that because if this is a race to
see who adopts more quickly and who gets
a bigger footprint more quickly, well,
then that might make sense financially.
The question is, when you're dealing
with such big numbers, how do you even
get your head around what makes sense
and what doesn't? And there's a lot of
finger to the wind, pay any price at all
to get in versus some sort of prudent
analysis. Hopes and dreams make maybe
the new technology, but markets maybe
can get a little bit
more hopeful and dreamy than they can
rational. That's when things can get
messy. Yes, put it that way. Thank you,
that's better.
>> What we describe and is what can make
this really messy and lead to that
massive misallocation of resources
because you're being incentivized to do
things. And when you start to get that
reflexivity kick in, and maybe this is
just the beginning and some people on
the show, we heard that from Wells Fargo
yesterday who believe it's just the
beginning, once you start to get that
leverage come in,
then it's 97, 98, 99. What I want to
understand is what the contracts are
that they have already entered into, how
much the lease payments are, how
expensive they are, what the
profitability is, and then to understand
just how much debt is embedded in all of
these companies as they invest in one
another because right now, I don't know
that we
>> got a full handle on that. Stock is up
by 0.6% in the pre-market. Check out the
week ahead. We're meant to get some
economic data. We're looking for jobless
claims tomorrow morning, 8:30 Eastern
time. Probably won't get it because of
the government shutdown. The hope is
we'll hit those traditional pressure
points and ultimately Congress, the
White House, will have to come and make
a deal. How close are we to that? Well,
we're not close there just yet. We are
close to the pressure points, but no
one's blinking. So, the end of this
week, federal workers will likely not
get their paychecks. Then next week,
it'll be the more than 1 million active
duty servicemen and women that
potentially will go without pay. That is
a huge deal and that is not going to go
well with the American public. And then
there's a third which I think is
definitely the biggest pressure point.
When people get delays, and yesterday
was a big one. Look at all these
airports. Philadelphia, Las Vegas,
Nashville, Chicago, Houston, Boston. All
short-staffed because of the government
shutdown.
>> It's a good job it's October and not
late November. True. Different
conversation. Very quickly. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 firmer here by 10
ticks of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Ross Mayfield of Baird as
Nvidia is investing in another customer.
David Deckelbaum of TD Cowen with
investors betting on Trump's next
investment, and Greg Daco of EY as he's
raising his bets on rate cuts. We begin
this hour with Stocks in Action Kaya.
Ross Mayfield of Baird warning we may be
in for a healthy pullback. He writes the
following, "Q4 could be choppier than
usual, but remain bullish on stocks for
2026. A correction here would be healthy
against the broader backdrop." Ross
joins us now for more. Ross, welcome to
the show, sir. I think a lot of people
would welcome a pullback because they
want to buy it. Ross, what would bring
it about?
Yeah, absolutely. I would think it would
be buyable as well. I mean, we've seen
the the the things that turn a bull
market into a bubble, right? It's
usually when sentiment gets really
unchecked. You look at some of the
classic like Shiller lists of what marks
a bubble, and it's all about FOMO and
chasing investments and sentiment. And
these corrections along the way kind of
reset sentiment, let fundamentals keep
up with price, and I think that's really
healthy. What could cause it? I think
right now the the the most obvious thing
is if this shutdown goes longer than
people anticipated, if there are
consequences that haven't been the case
with past shutdowns, right? Some of
these furlowed workers not getting paid.
Um as you mentioned, delays really
ramping up as we head into a holiday
season. So, that could be the obvious
thing if we start to see a real trickle
through to the economic data that we
might eventually get.
Um but as of right now, it it it's only
the questioning of the AI trade, and if
we have another deep seek moment that I
think it could really put a in
this thing. We won't be getting data
potentially tomorrow morning. We will be
getting earnings from corporate America
including from Delta Airlines. Ross,
what's going to be your approach going
to be to earning season?
Well, I still, you know, we're we're
talking so much about AI now and the
market is melting up, so all of the kind
of headwinds that we faced have gone
away. I'm still curious how companies
that deal with tariffs and imports are
handling this. Yesterday we got news
about more tariffs on trucks and
you know, big trucks. And and and so I
I'm I don't think that the that
investors should let this headwind kind
of slip to the backburner. These tariffs
are still massive.
Um we'll find out obviously if they're
legal soon, but I think the
administration has plenty of ways to put
them back on if they're um ruled
illegal. So, I think that how companies
are managing input costs, obviously the
S&P uh profit margins are kind of near
record highs. A lot of that has to do
with big tech. Um how are how's the
average company dealing with tariffs?
Are they passing it along to their
consumer at a time when that might not
be so well received? Ross, where is this
most potentially mispriced? Is it in
inflation expectations or is it in
growth expectations?
That's a great question. Probably
inflation expectations at this point.
You know, you look at like a five-year
break-even and it's, you know, a little
north of two. Um
I think that
we're in an environment that's just
very, very different from the 2010s
post-GFC kind of you're desperate for
economic growth or growth of any kind.
Today we have plenty of growth. We have
deglobalization across the board. We
have all of these other countries um you
know, stimulating or or pushing fiscal
levers in a way that they haven't
before. So, I think a second wave of
inflation, not not back up to 9, 10%,
but that kind of stickiness around
three, maybe even three and a half, 4%
is something that could put, you know, a
real thorn in the Fed's side. So, I
think inflation expectations don't need
to be blown out, but I think we're just
dealing with a different regime and
maybe there's a little bit of anchoring
to the past decade that I think uh needs
to be tossed away. Why aren't you seeing
this in the break-even rates? Why aren't
you seeing this in long-term bond
yields? Why aren't you seeing this in
some of the other market-based
indicators at a time when so many people
come on the show and they say the same
thing that you just have, and yet we
don't see it reflected at all?
I think there's enough worries about
growth here. I mean, you look at the
labor market, it's clearly softened. We
don't have the data right now, but it it
it we could have a neg another negative
payrolls print. I think there's just
enough concern about economic growth to
keep long yields, break-evens anchored
because there's still those kind of
higher than normal odds that we go into
a recession sometime in the next 24
months. Um look at the jobs numbers,
look at some of the other economic data,
look at where interest rates are still,
you know, theoretically in in
restrictive territory.
Um and then there's, you know, potential
kind of idiosyncratic tailwinds out or
headwinds out there. So, I think there's
just enough worries about growth um
particularly outside of the kind of AI
bubble, AI trade, um that is keeping a a
cap on those long yields and break-even
rates. But
um you know, eventually one of those
things has to win out. Ross, do you
think that's why we have gold topping
4,000?
Yes. Yes.
I mean, you you've got gold um in an
incredible bull market despite the fact
that real yields are pretty high
relative to recent history. I mean, that
that shouldn't be a good and nominal
growth doing well. That shouldn't be a
good cocktail for gold, and instead we
have gold as one of the best-performing
assets in the world.
Um I think it has to a lot to do with
concerns about the um kind of fiscal
dominance narrative, you know, what's
happening at the Fed. It is
politicization of the Fed. The debt
narrative, obviously we had these big
tax cuts. We know what the potential for
that is uh on the deficit long-term. So,
yeah, I think the the geopolitical
turbulence around the world paired with
some of the fiscal narratives both in
the US and abroad, you look at France,
you look at Japan. Um I think that's
plenty for for gold and we know it's
just supply demand in the end. We know
that other central banks who are a
little worried about the US position in
the world and and the use of the dollar
as a kind of an economic weapon are
loading up on gold as well. So, there's
clearly demand there um outpacing
supply. If you think there's a
correction to be coming at least in the
equity market, do you see gold going
even higher?
It's a good question because typical
correlations might might say yes, right?
You kind of rush to the safe haven
assets
um in times of equity market stress, but
that correlation has broken down. You
know, again, real yields higher, gold
higher, stocks higher. This is kind of a
new regime, and I think the gold trade
is more linked to um
some of these more structural issues in
the global economy. Again, you know,
fiscal dominance, uh debt and deficit.
So,
I I think gold could direct here. I
think positioning is probably getting to
a point where it's offsides. I know
anecdotally sentiment it it it is quite
bullish on gold, but I do think it's
operating a bit, you know, kind of kind
of not in lockstep with equities. So, we
could get an equity correction and gold
could go down with it. We could also get
an equity correction and see gold move
higher. I think it's that that
correlation is closer to zero than it is
to, you know, negative one. It's up this
morning by 1.5%. Ross, thank you, sir.
Ross Mayfield there
of Baird. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg Brief. Let's cross over to
Vani for more. Hey, Vani. Hey, John.
Thank you. The Bank of England says
steep AI valuations and challenges to
the Federal Reserve's independence are
raising risks of a quote sharp market
correction. In its quarterly financial
update, the UK central bank finds tech
companies focused on AI are particularly
vulnerable, especially if expectations
around AI become less positive.
Tesla shares trading slightly lower in
the pre-market continuing yesterday's
sell-off. The EV maker introduced
cheaper versions of its top-selling
models in a bid to counteract the loss
of US incentives for electric cars.
The new standard versions of the Model 3
sedan and Model Y are priced at under
$40,000 with less battery range and
stripped features.
Hockey is back after a three-game slate
on the NHL's opening night. The
defending champion Florida Panthers beat
the Chicago Blackhawks on home ice. The
Avalanche beat the LA Kings 4-1 on the
road, and the Pittsburgh Penguins shut
out the New York Rangers and their
former head coach Mike Sullivan at
Madison Square Garden 3-0.
That is your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Vani, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, the Morning Call's Plus.
David Deckelbaum of TD Cowen with
investors betting on Trump's next big
investment. We'll get to that story up
next.
[Music]
Each bubble was larger than the last. If
you're not concerned about the potential
knock-on effects of all this kind of
cross shareholder relationship,
you're probably not paying sufficient
attention. As difficult as it is, and it
is difficult to invest in these
valuations,
and
we think that you need to stay invested.
Stick with it. J. Emmanuel of Evercore
telling you to stick with this rally.
Equity futures right now, the S&P adding
some weight to the recent rally and
taking back some of the losses of
yesterday. We're up by a tenth of 1% on
the S&P, on the Nasdaq up by 0.04. Smart
performance today on the small caps, the
Russell up by 0.3. Let's get to money
course, that's the price action. Here's
some single names. First up, Steel
Partners raising its price target on
Tesla to 483 citing advancements in its
robo-taxi network. Your second call from
HSBC downgrading Intel to reduce saying
its deal-driven rally is quote overdone.
And finally, Wells Fargo raising its
price target on Delta 180 expecting
strong free cash flow and capital
return. Staying on Wall Street, Trilogy
Metals continuing to rally after
President Trump's administration
announced a 10% government stake in the
company. The move adding to a series of
investments made by the government so
far this year. Bloomberg's Michael
Shepherd joins us now for more. Shep,
welcome to the show. It's another one
and the list is growing. Mike, what's
the conversation sound like in
Washington around what's starting to
look more and more like central planning
and state capitalism?
Well, central planning from one point of
view, but from the Trump
administration's point of view, they see
an urgent problem that needs to be
addressed. And that is the imbalance
between what the US brings in in terms
of rare earths and critical minerals for
industries ranging from autos to
consumer electronics and what is
produced here. And the big concern is
that so much of that, John, comes from
China, which is our chief geopolitical
rival and strategic and economic also
locked in trade talks with the Trump
administration. And the advantage that
China has in rare earths has given them
leverage in these trade negotiations.
And what the Trump administration is
really pushing to do with these
investments and the Trilogy move
followed a direct interest that was
announced in Lithium Americas. And
remember, lithium is critical to
electric vehicle batteries. Batteries.
And then the Pentagon taking a $400
stake in MP Materials. And that's to
support a rare earths plant. So, they
are trying to pick up the pace in
addressing a problem that prior
administrations have recognized for a
long time, but haven't taken on with the
same sense of urgency.
>> So, Shep, you can open the door for
these companies just by loosening
loosening regulations. The financial
markets are wide open. These companies
can raise money if they need to. Shep,
I'm sympathetic with the objectives.
Most logical people just thinking about
this logically would be. These are
things that we need here domestically.
Got all of that, no argument at all.
It's more about the process and the
approach, Shep, that's got people's
attention. Why is this the optimal
approach?
Well, they are arguing that they need to
move fast and these companies need even
more financial incentive, not just the
promise of loosening regulations that
really have hamstrung some of these
projects. And And those included
regulatory restrictions dating back to
the Biden administration and beforehand.
Yesterday, as part of the Trilogy deal,
they also announced
a move to clear permitting to allow a
road to be built to a key project in
Alaska that Trilogy is seeking to
pursue. So, the administration is is
trying to attack it's to tackle this
problem, John, on a lot of different
fronts. But one thing that they do see
is a sense of urgency. And it is a sense
of urgency that they that they are
bringing in perhaps from that Wall
Street perspective. A lot of this is
being
driven by Trump, The Art of the Deal,
Howard Lutnick Commerce, and Steve
Feinberg over at the Pentagon who've all
identified critical minerals as
something that needs to be addressed
right away and they are looking for the
tools to address it quickly.
>> Shep, appreciate the update. Michael
Shepherd down in Washington, D.C. The
analyst David Deckelbaum of TD Cowen
covers some of the companies the Trump
administration has invested in and has
this to say, "Investors have to ask
who's next?" Stocks are moving
fantastically on this news no matter
what the actual details are. David joins
us now for more. David, good morning.
Morning. Thanks for having me.
>> Your job has changed. It has changed
indeed, sure. The White House is now
picking the winners. Yep. How does that
change your approach?
Uh you know, the similar to my comments
before,
uh
it was interesting in your prior
conversation you're talking about you
know, what's the process behind all of
this and what's the intention. And And I
think real really it's to for the
administration one
to some extent to make an investment on
behalf of taxpayers, but also I think to
raise the profile for the general
investing public that these companies
are a priority and that these industries
are a priority. And now everyone
obviously has their hands out and you've
seen companies openly talking about and
disclosing we're having conversations
with the US
Department of War. We're having
conversations with the Pentagon. And And
I think it just sets the stage for
what what's what's should be triggering
a multi-year investment process in in
the broader materials sector.
Theoretically, a lot of people could get
behind this and it seems like it does
make sense at least according to both
sides of the aisle and what they've put
out there. Is the administration picking
the right names?
So, I would say with with their first
investment I'm not and I'm not going to
speak on Intel. So, let's look at MP
Materials. That's right. They're the
largest rare earth miner in the western
hemisphere.
I think that was that was a very logical
chosen champion for this administration
to get behind
because it unlocks multiple parts of the
supply chain for rare earths and
ultimately magnets. You also saw a
follow-up deal with Apple right on the
heels of that. So, I think all of these
things were connected.
In the context with Lithium Americas,
they the government was already involved
with a substantial loan that the DOE had
approved under the Biden administration
under the ATVM loan program which sought
to to really propel, you know, the
lithium supply chain in North America
largely around the proliferation of
electric vehicles. We've walked back a
lot of the EV tax credits and incentives
there, but I think there was still
partly a recognition on the part of the
government that we're already in bed
with this company from a loan process.
Let's sort of rework some of the terms.
Did it actually improve the outlook for
Lithium Americas? I would argue perhaps
no. It really just diluted there. Um
really diluted the equity holder at that
point, but but it does obviously raise
the profile and the stock moved up well
over 100%. You know, without really
caring what the details were. So, can
you just basically look at whoever the
US has given a loan to and say that
probably will be equitized?
Uh sure. You could certainly build I
mean, you've seen a lot of names already
moving in anticipation that they're
going to receive funding in some form.
Uh and and logically you would
anticipate that every single company in
the materials space that has a project
at least on the whiteboard at this
moment is having active conversations.
Um so, I think you can probably still
make money that way because at some
point you have to ask how does this all
end? You know, is the government going
to be trading out of these equity
positions? It's not as though there's
always a contribution that's coming with
this.
Um and and at this point I think it's
safe to say that that that there is no
end in sight for this. Well, some people
think that this is just the beginning of
potentially US sovereign wealth fund.
Sure. Is that how you view it? I mean, I
I think in some cases that that's
already very much the case except you
know, in theory I suppose this is being
done with taxpayer money. And you've
seen some funds reallocated from areas
like the Chips Act and some other
funding.
And I think it's really just going to to
try to accelerate a lot of these
investment opportunities. One official
was talking about there's hundreds of
deals that right now are being proposed.
Could you see by the end of Trump's
first term hundreds of companies the US
government has a stake in? In theory,
sure. Look at Look at all these stakes.
And what's interesting about a 5 to 10%
stake is some of these are coming with
board membership, right? So, the
government is is becoming an active
member of management oversight, right?
They're not necessarily helping with
execution, but they can help on the
contracting side. And if you think
about, you know, hundreds of companies
out there taking a 5% equity interest in
some of these companies that's coming
costless to the government, sure in
theory, right? And And if you're an
executive right now and you see the
potential to re-rate your equity by
hundreds of percent and then on the back
of that perhaps raise additional capital
in the markets just by giving the
company you know, the government 5% of
your company, that's a very difficult
deal not to sign.
>> what does this do for competition in
this space?
Uh well, I think that it does welcome at
least in the United States that uh
everyone can get involved in the in the
supply chain. Look at rare earths for
instance right now. Yes, they've
championed MP. They've given them a
floor price. And you've seen actually
the the the NDPR market for rare earths,
you've seen pricing move substantially
higher up to $90 a kilo. In August, they
gave them a $110 a kilo price floor. I
think that it provides opportunity for
everyone within the within the United
States and and really allied nations to
come forward with projects to try to
reshore that supply chain as quickly as
possible. I have a massive amount of
sympathy for the national security
objectives. Mhm.
It's the capitalist story that I worry
about here.
And bringing up the sovereign wealth
fund, I hear this come up all the time.
Sovereign wealth funds traditionally
come from surplus countries. Yep. And
they're recycling those that money back
into the economy. That's not this.
Right. This is about taking money from
the taxpayer and deciding that the White
House is going to be the guy that makes
the decision on where to invest it.
That's going to completely distort
market forces. This is a completely
different thing. I'm not even sure you
could call that a sovereign wealth fund
even if they labeled it one. Yep. The
market distortions and what it could
mean for a market-based economy like the
one we have in America, one that's
massively successful by the way and the
envy of the world,
I worry about that. And I'd also worry
about what it normalizes. It's okay when
you have people who are in charge who
have experience of private markets.
There are a lot of people down in
Washington, D.C. who have never had a
job apart from being a politician who
could find themselves in power after
normalizing this kind of activity. I
would worry much more about the future
in that. And we spoke to Bill Cassidy,
the senator from Louisiana, the
Republican, yesterday who was just as
worried. He was thinking about the kind
of behavior it's going to normalize in
Washington and in the White House. And
you might not worry now because your
team's in the White House. Think about
what would happen if someone from the
far, far left gets into power, the kind
of objectives they've got. The kind of
objectives they've got and what they'd
like to invest in and what companies
they'd like to buy. And maybe you've got
a different perspective on what this
could mean in the future. This is the
reason why, as you said before, the US
is starting to look a little bit more
like China. And who's in power though
does change unlike in China. And so
there it really is a question longer
term of what kind of precedent it sets.
>> David, well explained. It's great to
catch up. We'll do this again soon.
David Deckelbaum of TD Cowen. David's
point on the amount of capital this can
attract putting a spotlight on things
and drawing people's attention to it, I
think it's a really valid point.
>> And it might actually be a really
positive thing in terms of growth and in
terms of developing an area that is
crucial. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Greg Daco of Y as he's
raising the bets on rate cuts. Plus,
Yahaira has your morning movers, FICO.
Sliding as competition heats up in
credit score services. That stock is
down by 2%.
[Music]
The opening bell is about 60 minutes
away. Equity futures on the S&P 500
firmer here by a tenth of 1%. A lift in
this market once again on the Nasdaq, on
the S&P, on the Russell. Small caps
higher by 0.4. With some single names
with the opening bell just around the
corner. Your morning movers with
Yahaira. Hey Yahaira. Hi John. We start
with Jefferies. That stock is now down 2
and 1/2% as we see the fallout from the
collapse of First Brands. The This bank
is facing $161 million in exposure to
the bankrupt auto parts supplier which
of course back in September filed for
bankruptcy after investors questioned
its trade financing. Meanwhile, FICO
also taking a hit here here down nearly
2% after Equifax struck back in the
credit score battle. Equifax says that
it will offer its Vantage Score 4.0 for
just $4.50. That's more than That's more
than 50% cheaper than FICO's model. The
move is an obvious attempt to get
mortgage resellers to switch to Vantage
Score testing FICO's grip on that
market. And we end on AST Space Mobile.
That stock is soaring 12% now in the
premarket after expanding its
partnership with Verizon which is also
up. They're building the first
space-based cellular network and it
would fill coverage gaps making your
phone work in rural rural areas and
other places where it's difficult to get
service. John. Yahaira, thank you.
Appreciate the update. Thank you very
much. Investors of course awaited the
release of the September Fed minutes.
They come out at 2:00 p.m. Eastern time
with a preview. Let's cross over to
Bloomberg's Mike McKee. Good morning,
Mike.
Good morning, John. You're right. We
actually get something to look at today
on the economic side and that is the Fed
minutes which ordinarily don't get as
much attention as they used to, but
today probably will because there are a
lot of things in there that people want
to know. The first thing of course is
the rate path discussion. Are they
really talking about cutting rates again
at the end of October and in December or
what could stop them from doing that?
Are there hidden hawks? We only had one
dissent, but are there people who would
have dissented if they had been voters
instead of just participants? And then
of course, what are their inflation and
labor outlooks? Do they really think
that the economy is slowing
significantly and that's a much greater
danger than the danger of inflation? And
why since they say tariffs are bleeding
into inflation, why are they now at this
point saying inflation is not as big a
problem? And one other thing, John, that
everybody's going to be looking at it of
course is what, if anything, they say
about the balance sheet and whether
they're going to stop running it down
fairly soon. So Mike, another story as
well I wanted to talk about with you is
one that you emailed me about a little
bit earlier this morning. It's odd for a
central bank to talk about another
central bank, but the Bank of England
did just that this morning, Mike. Could
you just explain what they said and how
unusual it was?
Well, their Financial Policy Committee
which is basically the regulator over
there in England
said in its twice annual report today
that the Federal Reserve is at a risk of
because of the independence attacks by
the administration creating a
significant market problem. If the Fed
loses credibility, we could see markets
fall significantly. And you're right.
It's not unusual for uh central banks to
talk a little bit about others. Andrew
Bailey, the governor of the Bank of
England has been a strong defender of
Jay Powell, but to put a warning out
there that this could affect markets is
a little bit more than we have seen in
the past. They also note there's an AI
bubble probably building and they're
concerned about that sending markets
down. So the combination of things from
the Financial Policy Committee gives us
something else to worry about these
days.
>> Mike McKee, thank you, sir. Appreciate
it. Check out this quote from the Bank
of England. Material bottlenecks to AI
progress from power data or commodity
supply chains as well as conceptual
breakthroughs which change the
anticipated AI infrastructure
requirements for the development and
utilization of powerful AI models could
harm valuations. A lot of words there,
but ultimately they've said more about
valuations than this Federal Reserve
has. It's clearly this is a concern for
them. They don't have any control over
this. If they cut rates, they're not
necessarily at risk of fueling this
bubble because it's a very different
dynamic over in England. So I think it's
easier for them probably also to say,
"Hey Fed, this is what you're doing. We
don't want to have to worry about it,
but we're worried about what you're
deciding on any given day." It's a
difficult moment. I think it's a pretty
interesting comment on their willingness
to talk about this.
>> You're suggesting these are things that
second-tier central banks can say that
first-tier central banks can't. I did
not say second-tier. You said
second-tier for the record.
>> I was just asking. But yes. Okay. Let's
stick with the Federal Reserve, a
first-tier central bank, at least for
now. Greg Daco of Y raising his rate cut
bet now expecting the Fed to lower
interest rate cut at back-to-back
meetings. Greg writing the following,
"This increasingly fragile backdrop
compounded by data vacuum and policy
uncertainty is likely to tilt the
balance of Fed policy makers." Greg
joins us now for more. Greg, good
morning.
>> Good morning. No data, no problem?
Uh no data means more caution uh when it
comes to how business leaders, how
economists, how Fed policy makers are
going to react. Uh I've been talking
with a lot of business executives that
are concerned about the fact that we're
not getting a pulse on the economy. Uh
and as we were getting before this
government shutdown, a lot of mixed
signals, there's growing uncertainty as
to the underlying pace of the economy. I
think one thing that's key to remember
is that there are three fragile pillars
to the economy that all start with an A.
You have essentially affluent workers
that are supporting consumer spending.
You have the AI investment boom and
potentially a bubble there. And then you
have the asset price increases. They're
all correlated and they're all fragile.
If you get any type of disruption to one
of those three, that could portend to a
slower economic outlook and then the
need for more Fed easing as we navigate
into 2026. When you talk about caution,
it seems to be a deceleration in growth
or euphoria in markets, not necessarily
the acceleration in inflation. Why?
Well, I think when you're thinking about
the economy right now, what you're
seeing is essentially the acceleration
in inflation that is induced by tariffs.
Um and the key question is whether this
is an embedded acceleration in inflation
or something that's likely to be
transitory. And you and I have talked
about this in the past. We are in an
environment where labor market demand is
softening. Uh it's not because we're
seeing slower payroll growth only. It's
because we're seeing a hiring rate
that's at a 12-year low. It's because we
are seeing continuing claims for
unemployment that have been gradually
rising. It's because job cut
announcements are up 55%
relative to last year. So all of these
indicators indicate softening labor
market demand. Notwithstanding the
massive negative shock that we've seen
in terms of net migration, there is
underlying weakness and softness in the
labor market which means there's
unlikely to be this desire to raise
wages. Um and so what we're seeing is
essentially this increase in prices
which is eroding consumer spending power
and in turn businesses that have to
contend with these higher cost pressures
are not going to be hiring more freely.
They're not going to be allowing for
higher wages and therefore that's going
to continue to weigh on income and on
consumer spending activity. There's a
lot to unpack there. I just would ask
and I sound like a broken record cuz I
ask this a lot.
Would really cutting rates help that
picture in any way? Would it get people
jobs given the fact that ultimately a
lot of companies are turning to AI and
they have every capital market opening
that they possibly could imagine? I
think that's the broader question as to
how the Fed reacts to supply shocks. Uh
we are in this environment where what
we're seeing is massive supply shocks to
the economy, whether it's uh on the side
of AI or on the side of net migration in
the labor market. The Fed has a limited
number of tools to address uh any type
of imbalance in the economy and this in
this instance, it's a supply shock
that's leading to inflationary pressures
and reduced growth volumes. Now your
question is very interesting because
what we're seeing is essentially uh uh a
growing spread between short-term rates
and long-term rates. Short-term rates
are pricing more Fed easing over the
course of the next 12 months. Long-term
rates have to contend with higher
inflation expectations, a fiscal
situation that is concerning even more
so in the midst of a government
shutdown, and then Fed pressures from
the administration. The three F's there
are very important to contend with when
it comes to uh the trajectory of where
the economy is going to hit. When you
look at tariff-induced inflation though,
we haven't really seen it yet.
Not broad-based. Not broad-based, but if
you lift the hood and you look at the
underlying drivers of inflation, if you
look at grocery prices, if you look at
apparel prices, if you look at car
prices, if you look at furniture prices,
all of these elements have been rising
and lifting inflation by about a third.
Essentially, a third of the inflation
increase over the course of the past 4
months has been driven by these
categories. What I would also note is
that you're also seeing that pass
through to services. A lot of services
that we consume are actually using goods
and equipment. We you think of medical
care, you think of car repair shops.
There are services that use a lot of
equipment that have an imported
component into them and that essentially
see these upward pressures in terms of
prices. We're not going to see the same
type of increase that we saw back in '21
and '22. We're not going back to 9%
inflation, but we are going away from 2%
inflation towards 3, 3 and 1/2%
inflation, which is hurting families
across the country.
>> haunt the Fed next year cuz they seem to
be ignoring it completely in the biases
to the labor market? I think you may see
the hints of this hurting the Fed next
year because the rotation of voters is
going to be more hawkish. So, if there
is more easing this year, you're going
to see more hawkish members next year
that may be on on on the docket saying
essentially, we eased too much and we
now need to either hold for longer or
tighten monetary policy. That's going to
be the 2026 debate because the rotation
of Fed policymakers is going to become
more hawkish.
>> It's super hard to predict what the
Fed's going to do a year out. The
Federal Reserve has difficulty
predicting what the Federal Reserve's
going to do a year out. Given what you
just said, you're going to have this
mix, this collision between a hawkish
rotation and then maybe a very dovish
rotation at the very top of the Central
Bank. How difficult will this committee
be to lead beyond May next year? Extreme
polarization is going to be the
situation when it comes to the Fed.
We're already seeing hints of that.
There's 150 basis points spread between
the most hawkish dot in the infamous dot
plot of the Fed and the most dovish
policymaker. So, that polarization is
going to remain firmly in place and
we're going to get a cacophony of
speeches that go in different directions
when it comes to interpreting the
direction of the US economy next year
and that's going to be very hard to read
from a policymaker standpoint, but also
you also from a business leader
standpoint. Let's not forget what we
really are concerned about is the
direction of investment, the direction
of employment, and the direction of
consumer spending. If you have a lack of
clarity as to what the Fed's going to be
doing because it interprets conditions
as either being extremely loose on the
financial front or because it sees that
there's more of a drag from the labor
demand side or labor supply side,
whether there are different views,
diverging views, very divergent views
potentially, that's going to confuse
policymakers, it's going to confuse
investors, and it's going to confuse
business executives as to what decisions
they should make. Greg, good to see you.
Always enjoy having you by. Thank you,
sir. Greg Daco, FYI. So, basically,
expect massive dispersion in the dot
plot for next year and beyond. So, maybe
we could do the three D's. We have the
three A's, we have the three F's. I was
smiling, I saw that. Now, we could have
the three D's. Dot plot dispersion.
That's all I got. Data dependency.
Thank you. That's really good.
Clearly, I'm not as good at it as it is.
You know, okay.
Before the show, let's get you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief is Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonnie. Hey,
John. Thank you. New developments this
morning involving Elon Musk's push into
artificial intelligence. Musk's xAI is
said to be raising $20 billion,
including $2 billion from Nvidia to
finance AI chips for its Colossus 2
project. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the deal, split between equity
and debt, allows xAI to rent Nvidia
processors for 5 years.
Teams from the US, Qatar, and Israel are
gathering in Egypt for final
negotiations to end the war in Gaza.
The US team includes US special envoy
Steve Witkoff and President Donald
Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner.
They'll join an Israeli delegation led
by Ron Dermer as well as the Qatari
Prime Minister.
Salesforce won't pay a ransom demand
from a hacker who claims to have stolen
client data and intends to publish it.
The hacking group known as ShinyHunters
was planning to share information stolen
during a security incident involving the
third-party app Salesloft Drift.
Drift. The breach resulted in the theft
of data from a number of organizations
that use Salesforce. And that is your
Bloomberg Brief, John. Vonnie, thank
you. Thanks for this morning. Up next on
the program, we'll set you up for the
day ahead, plus we'll catch up with Ella
Hoxha of BNY as she says there is no
need to cut interest rates this time for
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
City.
[Music]
We are expecting a cut at the end of the
month. In part cuz they may not get any
more official data between now and then.
The chair seems to have made the
decision that they're in risk management
mode. I think at least for the rest of
this year, that is going to be driving
the the decision. That was the former
Fed Vice Chair Richard Clarida, now with
Pimco, joining us a little bit earlier
on this morning as we count you down to
the opening bell, about 43 minutes away.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 shaping up
as follows, firmer by 1/10 of 1%,
bouncing back by 0.1 and the Nasdaq
outperforming on the Russell higher by
0.4. That's the price action. Here's the
trading diary, a sneak peek of the rest
of this week at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time,
a 10-year Treasury auction. 2:00 p.m.,
we get the Fed minutes. Also today,
another round of Fed speak. Look out for
all of that. On Thursday, earnings from
Delta and maybe another round of jobless
claims, looking unlikely at the moment.
Plus comments from Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent and Fed Governor Bowman in
a fireside chat. That might be worth
watching. Then on Friday, going into the
weekend, U Mich consumer sentiment. As
we turn to the Federal Reserve, Fed
minutes due out later this afternoon at
2:00 p.m. Eastern time. Ella Hoxha of
BNY Investments Newton writes the
following, "If we are indeed in a new
regime where inflation is 3 to 4%, not
2, then there is no need to cut interest
rates." Right here. Ella joins us now
for more. Ella, welcome back to New
York. Good to see you. Good morning. You
don't think they should, but they will.
So, what are the consequences?
Um I mean, look, I think the focus I
mean, has been clearly on some weakening
data in terms of the releases we've seen
lately, but also in terms of the jobs
market more specifically. And our view
is that that weakness is coming because
of weaker supply of labor, you know,
driven by the net negative migration
we're seeing now. And so, it's perhaps
the wrong feature to look at. So, it's
happening for some of the more benign
reasons
and not necessarily because there is a
need for the Fed to cut policy rates
here. Um the other reason for that is
because by doing so at an economy which,
as we said, is still running with
inflation above that original target,
which, you know, seems to have been
dropped,
then certainly there are risks that come
from the inflationary side down the
road. And so, you know, in our opinion,
that's perhaps a risk to pay more
attention to for the Fed. So, cuts seem
a little premature here. So, there's a
10-year auction as John was mentioning
later this afternoon in New York time.
There also is a 30-year auction. Would
you be touching this stuff with a
10-foot pole if you really believe that
there's going to be a reacceleration in
inflation and a Fed that's cutting
rates? 10-foot pole.
Look, I mean, in Treasury specifically,
we're running short positions.
Not because there are there is no value
in fixed income markets. There's plenty
of places you can own
bonds. We just don't think Treasuries
offer compelling value here given these
inflationary risks. Is this a US story?
Is this a global story? Is this a
duration story? Or is this something
that is more pernicious that has you
just stockpiling gold? There is a global
phenomena to it. I mean, I think we
talked about this a few months ago in
this show about the long end of curves
releasing across the world. So, we've
seen it in Japan, in the UK, and so on
and so forth. France has also been
obviously repricing fiscal risks. So,
there is this thing going on underneath
the surface and it's structural in
nature. Pertinent
to the US, I would say there's more
inflationary risks coming with it. And
so, that's perhaps the way we would play
it. There are other areas where it
becomes a bit more of a fiscal concern.
I mean, as we said, in the case of
France, UK is a bit of a risk given we
have the budget next year. But for the
US, I would say it's specifically more
inflationary. When it comes to inflation
in the US, how are you thinking about
next year in terms of tariff-induced
inflation? There's been different
thinking on the program today. Some
people saying we're already seeing the
pass-through, others saying actually
companies are reabsorbing cuz about 75%
of it. Mhm.
I mean, net net, I try to take a simple
approach to it. You know, is it going to
push push the cost base up? The answer
is yes. Can it push prices up? The
answer is yes. I think for the initial
stage, you see some absorption. It's
more difficult down the line. I think
that's and the distribution of that base
is is different for all industries,
different for all companies. But net
net, I would say is is is inflationary,
but it's not the only driver, right?
There are other drivers as well and I
think this labor market dynamic is an
important one as well as the fact that
on core CPI, we're still at like 3, 3.2.
So, we're no longer in these old days.
That's number one. And number two, on
the headline number now, if you get a
diffusion index, you're getting more
than 60% of the components of that
diffusion index actually pushing above
3%. So, there's lots of stuff brewing on
underneath the surface when we're
actually still talking about will the
Fed cut twice this year or not. I think
that's kind of like less important for
bond markets and the stuff down the
road, as you say, next year is far more
important. And possibly less important
for the equity market as well. The focus
at the moment seems to be AI. I want to
get across to the latest story on
Nvidia. Ed Ludlow breaking some news in
the last 24 hours. That news now
confirmed by the man himself, Jensen
Huang, at Nvidia. Ed joins us now for
more. Ed, what's the latest? Just go
through your reporting and and what
you've been learning.
Yeah, the structure is really important.
So, XAI needs a way to finance the GPUs
for its data centers, uh Colossus 2
particularly in Memphis. They've set up
a special special purpose vehicle with
this pool of investors. The target is to
raise $20 billion for the SPV, $12.5
billion of debt, the remainder in
equity. And essentially, the investor
pool buys the GPUs. And XAI leases or
rents them over a period of 5 years.
Um in this case, what Jensen Huang has
just confirmed in another network is
that they are participating.
Our reporting was that Nvidia would put
$2 billion into the equity chunk of the
SPV. And what Jensen Huang was saying in
that interview is that he regrets he
couldn't put more money into it. Um he
said it's not venture financing, nor is
it vendor financing per se. But I'd say
that's as close to a to a sort of
ironclad confirmation as we're going to
get because the whole point of an SPV,
as you know John, is usually the
participants take uh do so because they
want it to be discreet. You know, you're
not
Just to jump in Ed,
I don't want to be combative about this.
But Jensen Huang doesn't get to decide
what it is. That's what it is.
>> Right.
Yeah, it is what it is.
>> like. That's what it smells like. That's
what it is. Now Ed, I understand what
they get out of it because that
vehicle's going to buy ultimately what
Nvidia provides. What do the other
investors get out of it?
Yeah, so I think there's still a lot of
reporting to do on on whether they end
up with any XAI shares, but you
basically get guaranteed returns, right?
XAI doesn't take the debt burden onto
its own balance sheet. But because XAI
is funneling lease fees to this pool of
investors, they are getting guaranteed
pay. Although, you know, the specifics
on the payment schedule we don't have
yet.
Um
but the main point John is like the GPUs
are a very big initial upfront capital
expenditure, but they're also a
depreciating asset in part because in a
year's time, the generation of chip
that's installed will be obsolete
anyway. But they lose their value over
time. And so, the investor pool know how
much they're going to get paid back at
whether be it monthly or quarterly or
whatever. Um and and all told, they can
then work out later what to do with
those then obsolete chips. Ed, thank
you. I'm looking forward to the
coverage. Great reporting, buddy, as
always. Ed Ludlow there on the latest
with Nvidia and XAI. Ella Hoxha still
with us. Ella, want to have a final word
on this.
It is vendor financing. You're basically
investing in
your customer and they're going to use
some of this money to basically buy what
you're providing. We've seen a bit of
this building over the past month or so.
Have we seen a sufficient amount that
worries you?
We have early signs, absolutely, and
they're warning signs for now because
the backdrop remains still supportive
and we were just talking about further
easing of monetary policy, right? And on
the growth side, we still we have some
warning signals, but nothing that's uh
concerning. So, it's perhaps early days.
I mean, market is is running with this
and sentiment is very bullish. Uh but we
are seeing some of the early warning
signs, absolutely. Is it something you
want to participate in though? And I
think that's the issue. That's the
challenge a lot of people have got.
Shorting this is brutal, you know,
that's one thing. Staying out of it is
another. But participating when this is
continuing, it's maybe a pressure thing
for a lot of people I think at the
moment, the pressure to participate. Do
you feel the pressure to participate in
this rally? Uh perhaps not in some of
the AI stocks, some of the big stories
actually we've been taking step back
from from some of those across the funds
at least I manage with with the team. Uh
but I I know they're still loved and
they're well held. I mean, all the
concentration stories behind those. I
mean, it's not quite the time to short
them yet. I don't think I don't think
I'm we are that brave.
But certainly, uh you can get out of the
way given the moves. I think there's a
lot you know, a lot brewing as we've
seen. This is developing every week. So,
the the best thing to do I think right
here right now is take your money and
step aside. Ella, thank you. Appreciate
it. Thank you very much. Ella Hoxha
there of BMY Investments Newton. We've
had a range of opinions on this matter
so far this morning. Nvidia up by 0.9%.
It can go higher, which is the reason
why people don't want to short it. It's
sort of getting in front of a freight
train. At the same time, the idea of
locking in some gains seems to be
gaining in popularity and that is a
conviction that we're seeing.
>> Fantastic reporting from Ed Ludlow and
the team. Look out for more coverage
from him and Caroline Hyde at about
11:00 a.m. Eastern time for Bloomberg
Technology. Our coverage will continue
tomorrow. We'll catch up with Christian
Mueller-Glissmann of Goldman Sachs, Phil
Camparelli of JP Morgan, the former
deputy assistant to President Biden,
Amos Hochstein, and Richard Bernstein of
RB Advisors. In the equity market, the
rally resumes. Up by 0.2% on the S&P
500. The opening bell about 34 minutes
away. From New York City, thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]